Moroccan-focused potash developer Emmerson has finalised the feasibility study components of port and transport and logistics, including capital and operating cost estimates, for its world class Khemisset potash project in Northern Morocco. Morocco – Having completed a detailed options study, which
is a crucial part of the feasibility study to assess all options available for
the various components of the project, Emmerson has selected a “go-forward”
case to take into the more detailed engineering work. The company has resultantly completed a comprehensive assessment of the various options available for transport and logistics solutions from the project site to various potential export ports and local customers. READ MORE: New revenue potential from Khemisset Due to the
outstanding local road infrastructure and the minimal investment expected to be
required to access it, and the very close proximity to a number of potential
ports, the company’s go-forward logistics solution will remain trucking product
from site to its export terminal. Due to the
high-quality infrastructure already in place, confirmed capacity, storage and
handling capability for potash and only minor additional transport cost, the company
has elected to go-forward with the Port of Casablanca as its export terminal. Port of Casablanca The Port of
Casablanca is one of the largest in Africa and currently moves over 8 Mtpa. The
port has total capacity of approximately 10 mtpa and there are plans to further
increase the capacity in the coming years. Although
the Port of Casablanca is now the preferred option for the company,
consultation with the port authorities indicate that the Port of Mohammedia is
still a viable opportunity and, therefore, will not be completely excluded from
the overall development plans. The company believes this is a prudent risk
mitigation measure to ensure that its product can be export efficiently and
with minimal disruptions in all scenarios. Road Over the
last two decades, Morocco has invested considerably in upgrading its national
road infrastructure including the A2 national highway, which runs through the
Khemisset potash project. The Moroccan Government plans to spend over US$700
million per annum over the coming decades to upgrade and extend the national
roads network. The A2,
which is a very high quality four lane toll road, crosses the project area and
passes within a very short distance of the two potential site locations. The company
will only need to build a new entrance to the highway and approximately 1.5 km
of paved road to connect one of the project sites to the proposed highway
entrance. Rail ONCF (Office National des Chemins de Fer) – the
national railway owner and operator in Morocco –  controls 80 trains that are specific for goods
transport and move approximately 27 Mtpa, 70% of which moves through the ports
of Tangier, Casablanca, and Jorf Lasfar. The nearest
loading platform is in Meknes, which is 55km from the proposed Khemmisset project.
Access is via well maintained national roads. There are several other loading
sites with poorer road access. The 2030
strategic line for ONCF highlights building of a new railway line between Meknes
and Rabat via Khemisset, this presents a good opportunity for the project in
case this new infrastructure is built in the coming years. Due to
double handling (loading at site to trucks and then offloading and reloading to
trains), and an overall increase in delivered cost to the Port of Casablanca it
was decided to rule out rail for the initial Khemisset project development
plan. However, the availability and proximity of rail is a major positive
factor for any project expansions in future. Transport and logistics costs Emmerson
conducted detailed analyses of various logistics routes and obtained firm
quotes from several transport and logistics providers. Options
reviewed included: Although
trucking to Mohammedia provided the best operating cost outcome, the additional
$7.5 million to US$10 million of capital cost to upgrade the port more than
offset this operating cost gain and was a key consideration in eventually
selecting the Port of Casablanca as the export terminal. Consideration was also given for the requirement for a port storage facility to help manage the logistics requirements for Khemisset. After close consultation with the port operators and one of the largest transport and logistics companies in Morocco, the company has concluded that it does not require onsite storage at the port. The prime reason is the relatively small quantities that Emmerson will ship are well within the limits of delivering and loading in three to five days. The transport and logistics company confirmed it has the trucks available to deliver product “on time” to the wharf front to be loaded onto ships for export. This method is currently utilised by de-icing salt and clinker operators at the Port of Casablanca. “The
Emmerson team has visited the Port of Casablanca a number of times and have
been extremely impressed with the facilities available.  It was positive to note that the Port already
exports a significant quantity of de-icing salt, which has very similar storage
and handling characteristics to potash. 
In addition, the port handles large quantities of bulk commodities including
phosphate, clinker, fluorine,” says Emmerson CEO Hayden Locke. “The
management authorities for the Port confirmed that there is sufficient storage
and loading capacity, with equipment suitable for both potash and salt, to
handle all of Emmerson’s export needs with no additional investment. “On top of saving $7.5 million, we are pleased that the port already has expertise in managing products like potash, which will reduce the overall execution risk for Emmerson as we move towards production.” 