Vibrating screen and feeder OEM Kwatani is challenging the conventional norm in specifying large vibrating screens and feeders. Technologies should not be the primary factor when choosing a screen, but rather its operating parameters, COO KENNY MAYHEW-RIDGERS tells LAURA CORNISH. Lowest total cost of ownership is no longer a ‘nice to have’ in the mining industry but has today become a priority and key objective for any operator or developer. In achieving this, the sector has started evaluating and implementing digital technologies that enable real-time machine monitoring which in turn offers preventative maintenance benefit and consequently, reduced downtime and production uptime. This approach will deliver on the industry’s objectives but is by no means the only option to achieving best processing performance. Read more about gold “For screening applications in particular, Kwatani encourages the industry – both engineers and mining companies to change their approach when specifying large vibrating screens and feeders,” says Mayhew-Ridgers. “Generally speaking, the mining industry is conservative and is comfortable making decisions based on years of standard practice. But following the ‘norm’ doesn’t work in an industry where the guidelines for success have changed. "What worked in the past won’t necessarily work today and in many instances will definitely not produce the desired outcome,” he continues. When specifying a screen, most mining companies and engineering houses opt for the best suited screen technology, perhaps a brute force screen for instance instead of a twin-mass screen. But the parameters between screens supplied by different OEMs can vary quite substantially for the same technology. It should therefore be non-negotiable that the industry considers these parameters against their own feed material in determining not only what screen to choose but how it should be manufactured and what size it should be as well. “Now, more
than ever, there is a need to establish robust screen sizing protocols that
will produce accurate data on both vibrating screen and screen panel
performance. And we need to start by marrying the process and mechanics of screening
together.” Addressing
the problem The starting point should be premised on the question - what does the plant need? It should not be about pushing particular technologies. This does, however, require that decision makers need to be well-informed, which means decisions should not be made without access to the correct information. In any
screening application, Mayhew-Ridgers outlines the three parameter categories
that need to be considered before purchasing a screen – the physical screen,
the screen panels and the ore itself need to be evaluated according to their
specific characteristics. Kwatani has started a test work regime that is designed to not only educate clients on the necessity for evaluating screening parameters but to conduct preliminary tests that can, using a pilot wet screen easily change the parameters to fill in the gaps where data for screening performance has largely been guesswork or based on historic practice. In so doing Kwatani can best determine the ideal screen for individual applications. Knowledge
is power and this test work regime will include data that looks at both the
mechanical parameters as well as the process parameter influences and how these
integrate and affect the operation of large vibrating equipment. It is time
for mining houses to consider every option to improve their processes and production
performance and relook its approach to selecting the correct machine for the
application – which should be based on updated knowledge and decision-making
processes, and not rely on outdated information that was determined more than
40 years ago in a time when the design technology available to do so was not
nearly as advanced or able to consider varying options, Mayhew-Ridgers reiterates. He does add
that the various different screening technologies available should also be part
of the consideration – “their value should be measured as part of a bigger
picture.” “Through this message and the initiatives we have taken on board as an OEM I am hoping to instigate a paradigm shift that will see enormous benefits for the industry and will change the way OEMs and screen panel manufacturers better provide for the industry,” he concludes. 