Africa Finance Corporation (AFC) has announced the closing of its inaugural US$140,000,000 Kimchi Term Loan Facility. This
facility is AFC’s first Korean-focused instrument. It
follows the corporation’s US$233 million and JPY1 billion dual currency Samurai
Term Loan Facility, closed in September 2019, and a US$300 million loan facility,
through the Export-Import Bank of China. This is in addition to Asian investors’ purchase of 28% and 16% of AFC’s US$500 million and US$650 million Eurobond issuances, respectively, this year. Read more about investment Cumulatively,
recent Asian investments (from China, Hong Kong SAR, Singapore, Malaysia, and
Taiwan) into AFC have reached approximately US$1.2 billion equivalent. The closing of the Kimchi Loan Facility, and all other Asian investments in AFC , exemplifies the corporation’s success in global investor engagements and is an important step as it builds a broad coalition of investors to diversify its funding sources while also allowing institutions from around the globe to participate in Africa’s development. Proceeds
from the Kimchi Term Loan Facility will be used for general corporate purposes
in accordance with AFC's Establishment Agreement and the Charter. Samaila
Zubairu, President & CEO of AFC, comments: “We
are very pleased to have achieved this historic milestone with the South Korean
debt markets, which we know to have highly selective investment criteria, as
was evidenced through this Kimchi Loan Facility. “The
success, close on the heels of the Samurai Loan Facility in Japan, signifies
the East’s growing appetite for African investments, which are particularly
attractive considering today’s negative-yield environment. “We
look forward to continued engagement with South Korea as well as the other
Asian markets that understand the opportunity that is available through
Africa’s unprecedented development.” Banji
Fehintola, Senior Director & Treasurer of AFC, adds: “At
AFC, we have always taken a diverse and forward-looking approach to funding.
Asia is a very important region for us and the participation of Asian investors
in our bond issuances has been growing significantly over time. “The
Kimchi and Samurai Loan Facilities that we closed this year further exemplify
AFC’s wide market access and innovation in mobilising global capital to execute
projects and transform the lives of people in Africa. “We are very proud of our successes in Asia and we look forward to deepening our partnerships in the region.” 