The South African cabinet has approved IRP 2019 that plots the path for the nation’s generation technology mix to assuage the current energy crisis in the country. Minister of Minerals Resources and Energy, Gwede Mantashe has outlined the role that oil, and gas will play going forward. He was is at great pains to point out that hydrocarbons, particularly gas, will be an important part of the energy mix in the future. Mantashe calls for investment into SA gas sector “We intend to establish the first LNG
hub in the Coega IDZ, in the Eastern Cape Province,” he says. “I have been talking to investors at
this conference and they should take the opportunity to engage with our
officials on this matter as it is an opportunity not only to invest, but to
also help develop the gas industry in this country.” Infrastructure plans to harness gas
potential The plan is that the first LNG import
terminal at the Coega Special Economic Zone site will lay the foundation for a
breed of new gas to power plants as well as driving the conversion of existing
power plants from diesel to gas. It is also intended as a base to import
feedstock for the gas to liquids refinery in Mossel Bay. “The framework for supporting this major
programme will be announced by my department in the near term,” states Mantashe. “Linked to this is an amendment to the
Gas Act of 2001, which will be tabled in Cabinet soon.” Mantashe explains that South Africa gas
to power technologies will provide the flexibility that is needed to back up
the intermittent nature of renewable energy and meet peak demand during busy
periods. “In the short term the opportunity is to
pursue gas import options, in the future, local and regional gas resources will
allow for scaling up within manageable risk levels,” he says. “Indigenous gas like coal-bed methane
and, ultimately, local recoverable shale and coastal gas are options we are
considering. On the Upstream, work is underway on a Petroleum Resources
Development Bill, which will be before Cabinet soon. “Our oil and gas need to be harnessed to
deliver modern energy services to all households and businesses. Our gas must
power plants and other petrochemical facilities in our countries as it reaches
for export markets.  This will ensure that
we do not always import beneficiated hydrocarbons.” Upstream aspirations for South Africa On the regional front, Mantashe says
that they have noted with great interest and a sense of admiration, the major
gas finds in the Eastern part of the continent, especially in Mozambique and
Tanzania. “We remain patently aware that one of
the oil companies in South Africa played a pivotal role in the monetisation of
the earlier gas finds in Mozambique,” he explains. “Earlier this year we also announced
hydrocarbon finds by Total and its partners off the Mossel Bay coast.  We are confident that this find will spur
further interest in the upstream potential of South Africa. “We have taken note of global industry
shifts and are encouraged that many countries in our continent have set themselves
the vision to enter the global gas market and promote the development of a
domestic and regional gas market. “Natural gas can improve the
efficiencies of many industries currently using sub-optimal fuel sources in
their production processes and resulting in a turnaround in the industrial
capacity and demand in the region.” A new energy future Mantashe explains that the IRP reflects
the fact that South Africa’s energy generation landscape is evolving. “Old assumptions should give way,” he
added. “For example, demand is not captive to
the national grid; costs are declining as a result of technology advancements
and our national utility, Eskom, is being restructured into its regulated
functions of generation, transmission and distribution.” Coal will continue to play a significant
role in electricity generation for South Africa, but renewable energy is
growing in importance. “We have a more than
thirty-thousand-megawatt portfolio of existing coal power plants, and the
abundance of the resource,” he explains. “New investments will be directed
towards more efficient coal technologies, including underground coal
gasification, and carbon capture and storage, to enable us to continue using
our coal resources in an environmentally responsible way. “The IRP 2019 continues to make
provision for significant rollout of renewable energy and storage. Combined
with storage, renewables offer an opportunity to produce distributed power
closer to where demand is; and to provide off-grid electricity to far-flung
areas of the country.” The next 12 months may well prove pivotal to the energy future for South Africa. As the government continues to balance the demands to lower carbon emissions with the need to supply power to its citizens, gas will certainly have a big part to play. 