Global distributed energy producer EDL has switched on its 23 MW power station that integrates renewable photovoltaic solar with gas and diesel generation to power Gold Fields’ Agnew Gold Mine. This completes the first stage of one of
Australia’s largest hybrid renewable microgrid projects. EDL CEO James Harman and Gold Fields Executive Vice President: Australasia, Stuart Mathews, welcomed Western Australia Minister for Mines and Petroleum, Energy and Industrial Relations, Bill Johnston, to the site to officially open Stage 1 of the Agnew Hybrid Renewable Project. Siemens and partner to develop microgrids for mining companies Harman said EDL is proud to partner with Gold Fields on the landmark
project. “With this project, EDL and Gold Fields
are leading the way towards clean, renewable energy to power remote, off-grid
mining operations without compromising reliability or power quality. “The power station we are officially opening today integrates 4MW solar generation from our new solar farm and is underpinned by 19MW of gas and diesel generation. It will soon include other renewable energy technologies
coming online in the next stage of the project.” Pumped storage hydro power combines with solar PV in Zimbabwe Mathews referred to the importance of
the A$112m project to both Gold Fields and the broader industry: “This is a significant milestone for both the Agnew gold mine and the broader Gold Fields Group, demonstrating our ongoing commitment to strengthening our energy security, optimising energy costs and reducing our carbon footprint through the adoption of new technologies. We are hopeful that this
will also enable other companies to consider the options for decarbonising
their operations.” Johnston congratulated EDL and Gold
Fields for their collaborative work in completing stage one of this innovative
project. One step at a time: IRP 2019 “The McGowan Government is supportive of
mining and resources companies that are embracing renewable energy solutions,
particularly when it helps reduce their carbon emissions. “This innovative, Australia-first
project is setting the standard for mine sites throughout Western Australia.” The second stage of the project, which
includes 18MW wind generation, a 13 MW battery and an advanced micro-grid
control system, is currently under construction and due to be completed in
mid-2020. It has the backing of the Australian
Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA) with a recoupable A$13.5m
contribution to the construction cost of the project. Once completed, the Agnew Hybrid
Renewable Project will be the first to utilise wind generation as part of a
large hybrid microgrid in the Australian mining sector. It will have a total installed generation capacity of 54 MW, with renewables providing over 50% of the Agnew gold mine’s power requirements, with the potential to increase this further by adopting innovative operational practices such as the dynamic load shedding, renewables forecasting and load control management.