The discovery of gases
released from deep beneath the earth’s crust could help to explain Southern
Africa’s unusual landscape, a study suggests. Scientists have long
puzzled over why areas such as South Africa’s Highveld region are so elevated
and flat, with unexpectedly hot rocks below the surface. Geologists have revealed
that carbon dioxide-rich gases bubbling up through natural springs in South
Africa originate from a column of hot, treacle-like material – called a hotspot
– located deep inside the earth. Hotspots are known to
generate volcanic activity in Hawaii, Iceland and Yellowstone National Park. In South Africa, the
hotspot pushes the crust upwards, generating the distinctive landscape, which
consists mostly of tablelands more than one kilometre above sea level, the
researchers say. This also explains why
rocks beneath the region are hotter than expected – a property that could be
harnessed to generate geothermal energy. A team led by scientists from the University of Edinburgh analysed the chemical make-up of gas emerging from a deep crack in the earth’s crust located in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. They found that variants
of helium and neon present in the gas match the composition of a rocky layer
1,000 km below earth’s surface – called the deep mantle. The findings provide the
first physical evidence that Southern Africa lies on top of a plume of
abnormally hot mantle, which had until now only been theorised using computer
modelling of seismic data. The study, published in
the journal Nature Communications, was funded by the Engineering and Physical
Sciences Research Council and the Natural Environment Research Council. The research was
completed with support from Scottish Carbon Capture and Storage and the UK
Carbon Capture and Storage Research Centre. It also involved scientists from the Universities of Aberdeen and Strathclyde, Scottish Universities Environmental Research Centre, British Geological Survey and South Africa Council for Geoscience. Council for Geoscience: pioneering environmental sustainability Dr Stuart Gilfillan, of the University of Edinburgh’s School of GeoSciences, who led the study, says: “The high relief and
hotter than expected subsurface temperatures of the rocks beneath Southern
Africa had been a puzzle for geologists for many years. Our findings confirm
that carbon dioxide gas at the surface is from a deep mantle plume, helping to
explain the regions unusual landscape.” The study is available here 