All roads that lead to Lubumbashi in the DRC are paved with copper, cobalt and gold and plenty of opportunity. This is evident from the fact that many in this thriving Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) city are still talking about the success of this year’s DRC Mining Week. Organised by Clarion Events, 2019 marked the 15th anniversary of the pre-eminent mining exhibition and conference on the Copperbelt, which attracted a record-breaking 5,000 participants. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 11, 2019Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here Now the countdown has begun for next year’s DRC Mining Week. "DRC Mining Week is a great platform to showcase capabilities in the mining and metals space” says Amedeo Anniciello, CEO: Standard Bank, DRC, which is returning to the 2020 edition of the event as a Diamond Plus sponsor. He adds: “At Standard Bank, Africa is our
home and we drive its growth. We believe in the potential of the country and
mining as a core to support this great economy. DRC Mining Week thus provides a unique platform to engage and
dialogue on the best ways to develop this great nation through mining. Standard
Bank supports the event." Meanwhile, event director Elodie Delagneau
adds: “It was clear from this year’s sold out, packed conference and exhibition
that the interest in this country and its mining potential is just growing exponentially
every year. “Therefore, the 2020 edition will be larger
in expo space but we will also make sure that we take our lead from the
industry with a programme that is relevant and sector-focused, not only delving
into the challenges but also showcasing success stories and giving every
opportunity for mining operators and suppliers to meet and talk business. We
are also grateful for the DRC’s Ministry of Mines’ high-level official support
and presence at DRC Mining Week.”

More than 230 sponsors and exhibitors from more than 45 countries will partner
with DRC Mining Week 2020, taking
place from 17 to 19 June next year. The trend of increasing international
pavilions is also expected to continue with six country pavilions, including a
first dedicated Chinese pavilion, while some 1,500 mining executives will
attend the conference and more than 5,000 visitors visiting the expo. Apart from an extra focus on China, the
event will also boast a dedicated session on the growing battery metals sectors,
junior mining, a special focus on investment and training for artisanal small
scale miners and an exclusive session on Women in Mining. Event director: Elodie Delagneau Elodie.delagneau@clarionevents.com Sponsorship and exhibition: Jean-Tite Oloumoussie jeantite.oloumoussie@clarionevents.com Marketing: Caroline Plateaux caroline.plateaux@clarionevents.com Conference and workshop programmes: Audrey Bading Audrey.Bading@clarionevents.com Website: drcminingweek.com 