Black-owned and controlled coal mining company Seriti Resources has concluded an acquisition agreement with South32 to acquire South 32’s 91.835% shareholding in South Africa Energy Coal. Located in the coalfields of Mpumalanga, SAEC
includes four collieries – Khutala Colliery, Klipspruit Colliery, Middelburg
Colliery and the Wolvekrans Colliery – as well as three processing plants,
producing energy coal for the domestic and export market. Included on the Seriti Resources side of the
transaction are two trusts which will acquire equity on behalf of employees and
communities. The remaining 8.165% interest in South Africa Energy Coal (SAEC)
is held by a black economic empowerment consortium led by the Phembani Group. The purchase price includes an up-front cash payment of approximately R100 million. In addition, South32 will receive 49% of the free cash flow generated by SAEC from the date the transaction is concluded until March 2024. That component will be limited to a maximum of R1.5 billion a year. READ MORE: South32 handpicks contender to acquire coal business Fulfilment
of the transaction is subject to the following conditions being met: Subject to
the conditions being satisfied, the transaction would be expected to close in
nine to twelve months. “Finalisation
of this transaction will be a significant milestone for Seriti in our ambition
to become a black-owned and controlled mining champion,” says Seriti Resources CEO Mike
Teke. “The SAEC acquisition will enable us to offer further
secured, long-term coal supply solutions to Eskom as a demonstrable commitment
to sustainably supporting South Africa’s energy needs. The combination of our
energy coal businesses will realise further operational and technical
efficiencies enabling us to better service our customers by offering
competitive energy solutions. “We remain fully committed to all our stakeholders and
we welcome the participation of the SAEC employees and communities in this
acquisition.” South32
CEO Graham Kerr said: “We ran an exhaustive and competitive process and we
believe Seriti Resources as an established operator is ideally positioned to
unlock the potential of SAEC’s existing domestic and export operations,
including its significant untapped resource base. “The sale
of our interest in SAEC will enable the business to continue to operate safely
and sustainably into the future for the benefit of its employees, customers and
local communities, consistent with South Africa’s transformation agenda.” Seriti Resources, through its operating subsidiary, Seriti
Coal, currently operates three large-scale, opencast and underground thermal
coal mines, the New Vaal, New Denmark and Kriel mines, which it acquired from
Anglo American, as well as various life extension coal resources and closed
collieries. Together with its partners, Seriti intends to develop its New Largo project into a large-scale, opencast coal mine capable of providing the base load fuel requirements for Kusile power station. 