Orica and Epiroc Rock Drills will jointly develop an explosives delivery system using automation, enabling safer and more productive blasting operations in underground mines. As
mines go deeper and ore bodies become more remote, the case for blasting
automation becomes clearer. The partnership will bring together the deep expertise and experience of two global industry leaders to address the growing demand from customers mining in increasingly more hazardous and challenging underground operations through automation. Australian-first qualification in automation receives accreditation Orica Chief Commercial and Technology Officer Angus Melbourne says: “This
exciting partnership with Epiroc will allow us to leverage our exclusive
wireless initiating system, WebGen, to deliver the critical first steps towards
the automation of drill and blast operations. “Automation
is a key pillar of our technology strategy and supports our vision of
transforming drill and blast to unlock mining value by creating safer and more
sustainable operations.” Epiroc Senior Executive Vice President Mining and Infrastructure Helena Hedblom says: “This
promising collaboration with Orica is an important first step on an exciting
journey toward automating the whole drilling and explosives charging process. “It is a vital part of both Epiroc’s and Orica’s vision of making the mining operation as safe, productive and cost efficient as possible.” Industry 4.0 mining is making its move Orica
and Epiroc are the ideal partners to optimise the explosives charging process
for underground mining. Orica is the world’s largest provider of commercial
explosives and innovative blasting systems to the mining, quarrying, oil and
gas and construction markets, and Epiroc is the industry leader in developing
innovative underground mining equipment, including face drill rigs and production
drill rigs. The first prototype system is expected in 2020, with the first commercially available systems to enter service in 2021. 