Accenture has collaborated with South African coal producer Exxaro to help digitally transform its business and unlock new revenue streams by managing the migration of its SAP solutions, and other centrally-run to Microsoft Azure. This supports Exxaro’s ambition to establish a secure, agile, cost- effective and scalable platform that will improve business processes and continuity. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 10, 2019Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here Accenture created a cloud transformation strategy that defined the business case for migration to a public cloud, a move, which offered the lowest total cost of ownership, improvements to core systems resiliency, and the agility needed to meet customer demands. In line with Exxaro’s requirement for a swift and secure transition, Accenture designed and built a cloud platform in the South African Azure data centres. This included optimising Exxaro's SAP systems to take advantage of cloud architecture benefits and building a more resilient and available architecture to improve business continuity. Accenture then migrated Exxaro's enterprise applications,
which included more than 280 Microsoft Windows virtual machines, onto Azure
with minimal disruption, while also integrating multiple remote mining
locations in South Africa. Geared towards better outcomes This will provide resource visibility, management consistency, and operational control for cloud optimisation and scale, amid changing business needs. “Exxaro will benefit from a more secure, scalable and agile operating environment that is more cost effective than standing up a new on-premises data centre,” says Desmond Govender, group manager: information management, Exxaro. “This will improve business processes and continuity, as well as free up resources to focus on achieving superior business outcomes.” Pradeep Roy, cloud advisory lead for Accenture in Africa, adds, “Exxaro's decision to move to the cloud puts it in a strong position for greater efficiency and innovation. "This approach to transformation will deliver a competitive advantage on a secure cloud platform, enabling them to flex based on business demand and accelerate innovation.” Exxaro selected Accenture for its strong technical knowledge and capabilities, robust partner ecosystem, local expertise and its deep experience implementing large-scale cloud migrations. The company has been innovating in cloud technology for nearly a decade and holds more than 300 granted patents and pending applications across its global cloud portfolio. 