Bushveld Minerals has signed a term sheet setting out the main terms and conditions on, and subject to which, to acquire Enerox (VRFB specialist) on a debt free basis from CellCube Energy Storage Systems. Enerox
is one of the world's largest researchers, developers, manufacturers and
distributors of vanadium redox flow batteries (VRFB), headquartered in Wiener
Neudorf, Austria. It
has installed VRFBs at over 130 sites globally. Fortune Mojapelo, CEO of Bushveld Minerals comments: “The
potential acquisition of Enerox is in line with Bushveld’s previously announced
strategy of establishing a VRFB Investment Platform through which the company
will mobilise additional capital from third party funders to help credible VRFB
OEMs build scale to respond to a growing stationary energy storage market
opportunity. “Investing
in the development and deployment of VRFB technology is a key part of
Bushveld’s corporate strategy for several reasons. “Firstly, the market opportunity presented by the widespread adoption of VRFBs is sufficiently attractive to grow Bushveld and generate returns for shareholders. A game changer for energy storage safety “Secondly,
by helping to increase the speed and scale of adoption of VRFBs, the company
will help boost long term structural demand for vanadium, which is key for our
existing primary vanadium production platform. “In
addition, the combination of vanadium production and commercial exploitation
provides a natural hedge for the company against vanadium price volatility. The
advantages this strategy brings are clearly illustrated by the right of first
refusal agreement, also concluded with Enerox, whereby Bushveld will have the
right to match commercial terms for the provision of vanadium products. “Enerox’s existing platform complements the relationships that Bushveld Minerals and Bushveld Energy already have in place, for example, the Enerox acquisition will help the company develop potential opportunities in Europe more quickly.” Read more about batteries Brett
Whalen, Interim president and chairman, Cellcube Energy Storage Systems comments: “As
a leader in the VRFB space, Enerox deserves the capital necessary to maintain
its competitive advantage. We are confident the Bushveld Consortium will
maximise Enerox's full potential for its 4th generation project while
increasing manufacturing capacity.” The
investment is in line with the company’s strategy of establishing a VRFB
Investment Platform (VIP) to lead investments in VRFB original equipment
manufacturers (OEMs) with attractive upside potential. The
VIP is one of multiple avenues of partnering with OEMs. 