West Africa focused gold explorer Predictive Discovery has been ramping up gold exploration activities on its joint venture projects in Cote D’Ivoire, which are operated by ASX-listed Resolute Mining, and its 100%-owned projects in Guinea. Cote D’Ivoire and Guinea – This follows the closing of a share purchase plan in which the company raised $1.948 million to drill the promising gold targets we are developing across our 100%-owned portfolio in Guinea, and support our equity contributions to the Resolute Joint Venture in Cote D’Ivoire, which returned very encouraging drill results in the June and September quarters. READ MORE: Predictive Discovery raises cash for West Africa projects Cote
D’Ivoire Diamond
drilling at the Ferkessedougou North projectis now scheduled to begin in January 2020, where it will follow up on
the exciting new Ouarigue South gold discovery, that is already known to be up
to 100 m wide and at least 210 m long, and is open to the south and at depth.
Diamond drill results from Ouarigue South (first reported in June) include: READ MORE: Resolute Mining JV's with Predictive Discovery Resolute
Mining has advised that late heavy rains in the area restricted drill access to
Ouarigue South resulting in a delay to the start date for drilling. Resolute
has reaffirmed that it shares Predictive’s strong interest in the prospect and
looks forward to the re-commencement of drilling. Apart
from the planned diamond drilling, further exploration work along the 17 km-long
Ferkessedougou North gold-in-soil trend is expected in the coming months and
will be announced once the work plan is finalised by Resolute Mining. Meanwhile,
at the Boundiali project, air core
drilling is also planned for the March quarter in 2020, focused on the 4 km of
untested gold-in-soil geochemical anomalies directly along strike from the Nyangboue
gold deposit. Follow-up reverse circulation drilling will take place
thereafter. Guinea Predictive
Discovery is engaged in drill target definition across its 100%-owned Kankan, Kaninko and Nonta projects,
with air core and reverse circualtion drilling expected to commence in the
March 2020 quarter. The company continues to evaluate other properties in Guinea and expects to expand in its ground position in the country in the coming months, with a focus on the highly prospective Siguiri Basin which hosts AngloGold Ashanti’s +10 Moz Siguiri gold mine. READ MORE: Predictive Discovery grows its landholding in Guinea At Kaninko, results are pending from
the first phase of soil sampling covering a 17 km2 area on a 400 x
50 m spaced sampling grid, with follow-up infill soil sampling expected over
gold-anomalous zones, designed to vector down on potential drill targets. Other work will include a BLEG stream
sediment sampling survey over both the Kaninko permit and the adjacent Saman (Kaninko
North) reconnaissance authorisation. Follow-up
infill soil geochemical sampling is now in progress at the Kankan project.
Planned ground geophysics there is scheduled to commence in December. At Nonta, a power auger drill programme is scheduled to commence at the start of December, following up gold-in-soil anomalous zones recorded previously. 