Speaking at the Diamond Conference in Gaborone, Botswana, De Beers Group CEO, Bruce Cleaver, answered a range of questions that are vital to the fast-changing diamond industry. Here is what he had to say: The answer, as is so often the case with simple-looking questions, is in fact complex. Success requires a combination of many different things, all of which depend on the efforts of a great many people and organisations. Read more about about diamond mining At this year’s event, we seek to explore some of these key ingredients for success in more detail, and to investigate what we need to consider for the future. Seven mining companies partner with World Economic Forum Today we will be examining this
subject through the lens of what you might call the ‘4Cs of success for the
diamond ecosystem: Consumer Community Cluster Development Collaboration These 4Cs are important because
it is only by understanding the consumer and the commercial landscape in which
we operate that we can maintain healthy diamond demand; but if that demand does
not translate to revenues that can be invested in diamond producing countries
for the purpose of building communities and stimulating economic opportunity
through industrial clusters, then there will be no sustainability of supply to
meet that demand. If we cannot find a way to
ensure the key players within the sector collaborate and all pull in the same
direction, then not only will we be unable to achieve our common goal, but a
common goal would not even exist. So, a keen focus on each of
these topics has underpinned the development of the diamond industry in
Botswana, and looking at them more closely can provide us with valuable insight
into what we need to think about to drive further positive development. And this becomes even more
important as the world around us changes faster than ever before. With changes in technology, social
norms, attitudes and behaviours, we are standing on the cusp of a new diamond world. But what will this new diamond
world look like? We know that it will be a world
of opportunity if we make the right choices and investments because the
long-term fundamentals for diamonds are undeniable. There will be a stable to declining supply of diamonds in the future as older mines produce less as they go underground and approach the end of their life. Feasibility study green light’s Karowe underground development At the same time, given the
right marketing strategies, demand for diamonds will continue to increase. The young generations – known as Millennials and Gen-Z – are already the largest purchases of diamonds worldwide. As these consumers reach financial maturity, as female self-purchasing continues to grow, and as 100 million new households enter China’s middle class over the next decade – consumer demand has the potential to power an industry expansion. But while the new diamond world
will be alive with opportunities, the ways in which we capture those
opportunities will need to evolve. Because the new diamond world
will be an intelligent, connected world of insights and innovation. We therefore need to understand the
interaction between all parts of the diamond value chain, from our end consumer
and all the way through the pipeline, better than ever before. The new diamond world will also
be one in which consumers have full trust that the products they buy are
delivering real value to the places from which they originate. As such, the new diamond world
will need to be one where we work even more closely with diamond communities to
convert their finite resource into infinite positive outcomes. The new diamond world will also
be defined by enhanced efficiency and technological innovation. Our focus must therefore be on
developing and growing industrial clusters that support the developments that
will enable the diamond sector to compete with other fast-moving industries. And as a result of all this, the
new diamond world will also focus on bringing innovative, ethical, and
interesting products to consumers from brands that they are proud to wear. But all of this depends on
collaboration. None of it will be possible to deliver through one part of the
value chain acting alone. Collaboration has underpinned
the diamond industry’s success for decades, and this is one thing that we can
be confident will never change. And there are many forms of
collaboration that will be necessary in the new diamond world: Collaborating to ensure mutually
beneficial relationships for businesses and communities. Collaborating with downstream
entities to understand how the consumer sector is evolving and what information
is available to inform any changes to upstream approaches. Collaborating with environmental
agencies and experts to ensure best practice is applied in the management of
biodiversity and natural ecosystems. Collaborating with innovations
partners, both inside and outside the diamond sector, to understand the latest
trends in technology and new ways of thinking that can support progress and
enhance competitiveness. Collaborating to protect diamond
equity and to ensure all stakeholders understand the truth about products such
as laboratory-grown diamonds, especially when there is so much misinformation
in the public domain. And of course, collaboration
between diamond businesses and diamond producing country governments to maintain
long-lasting and meaningful relationships that form the bedrock of supply for
the wider industry. As diamonds will continue to
play such a central role in Botswana’s ongoing development, this is both a logical
and creative approach to combining the requirements of statesmanship and
industry leadership. As Botswana’s dedicated partner for more than 50 years, I am proud to say that every man and woman across De Beers Group is committed to turning the vision for the nation into a lasting reality. 