Endeavour Mining has successfully completed the 25% volumetric upgrade of the carbon-in-leach (CIL) plant, from 4 Mtpa to 5 Mtpa, at its Ity gold mine in Côte d’Ivoire. The company has also obtained the highly prospective Mahapleu tenement, resulting in Endeavour Mining now controlling the entire Birimian greenstone trend that stretches 125 km along the Ity mine. Endeavour buoyant about Fetekro’s potential Sébastien de Montessus, Endeavour Mining President and CEO, comments: “Building
Ity on time and on budget has been a key achievement for 2019. With the plant
upsize now complete, we are well positioned for 2020 and beyond. “We
believe the increased plant capacity will help accelerate the value created
through exploration.” Patrick
Bouisset, Executive Vice President Exploration and Growth adds: “We
are very excited to have consolidated control of the entire 125 km Birimian
corridor along the Ity mine. The Mahapleu tenement is a highly
prospective area which remains unexplored despite being located within
proximity to the Ity mine. “With
our primary exploration objective of extending mine lives beyond 10 years for
both Houndé and Ity well on track, we can now focus on increasing our
greenfield exploration efforts in Côte d’Ivoire with Mahapleu ranking high within
our large greenfield portfolio, alongside Fetekro.” Plant
upsize Following the commissioning of the 4 Mtpa plant in April 2019, Endeavour Mininhg launched optimization and debottlenecking work
to increase the plant capacity by 25% to 5 Mtpa for a minimal cost of between
$10-15 million. Integration of components to achieve the increased throughput was carried out during the scheduled maintenance downtime with the plant achieving an annualized throughput exceeding 5 Mtpa for the last two weeks. Read more about gold As part of the volumetric upgrade, capacity of the following items was increased: variable speed drives for the primary apron feeder, vibrating grizzly, and lime screw feeder, tailings pumping and decant return, high pressure
gland water supply, tailings pumping and a second 50 t capacity oxygen plant. Upgrades
to the tailings storage facility are ongoing. ITY
trend consolidation The
Mahapleu tenement was purchased for a minimal cash consideration and a royalty
based on a sliding scale depending on the gold price. Following
this land consolidation, Endeavour now controls the whole extent of the Ity
Birimian corridor that stretches nearly 125 km. An airborne Mag-VTEM survey was previously carried out on the Mahapleu tenement. The Mahapleu central area, known as Doui, appears to host a large intrusion which has the potential to be similar in type and size to the one associated with the large mineralization event that occurred at the Ity mine complex. Read more about mining in West Africa Endeavour Mining considers this area to rank high within its greenfield exploration portfolio and expects to initiate ground surveys in early 2020. 