ASX-listed AVZ Minerals has appointed EmiAfrica to conduct environmental and social impact studies at its tier one Manono lithium and tin project in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Democratic Republic of Congo – As part of the formal
process to obtain mining permits, EmiAfrica consultants and senior members of
AVZ’s technical have commenced meeting with local chiefs and dignitaries to
appraise them of the company’s intentions to mine the Roche Dure deposit, to
obtain their input and address any concerns they have about future activities
by Dathcom Mining SA – the joint venture operating company which is majority
owned by AVZ Minerals. Community briefings have been conducted with Chief Luba (31 October) and Chief Kiluba (1 November) along with their respective advisers, as well as with youth representatives of Manono (1 November). READ MORE: AVZ Minerals' DFS fieldwork gains momentum Under
contract to Dathcom, EmiAfrica also recently started work on a flora and fauna
study of Roche Dure, which is required under the Environmental and Social
Impact Assessment (ESIA) programme. This work is required to complete the
Environmental Management Plan to support future mining operations in a
sustainable manner. In addition, Dathcom has appointed Canadian firm, RD
Consultants, to undertake the hydrogeological investigation survey of Roche
Dure, with work commencing in the coming weeks. “Stakeholder
consultation is a critical component of the process for obtaining mining
permits to mine the Manono project, both in terms of explaining our social
responsibility standards and addressing the regulatory approvals process,” says
AVZ MD Nigel Ferguson. Additional
contracts awarded at Manono Meanwhile, AVZ
has awarded contracts for several other studies at Manono including ore sorting
(awarded to Nexus Bonum), marketing (Roskill), rail technical (Infraology), IT
infrastructure (Dynamic IT) and financial modelling (FTI Consulting). Work studies are also being progressed relating to road
transport, road refurbishment, catering services, diesel supply, resource to
reserve generation and mine design. Operational update Dewatering of the Roche Dure pit is continuing and is
expected to be completed in December, although the amount of sediment from
artisanal washing of tailings material on the pit floor is unknown. No further geotechnical drilling is required at Manono
with the work completed by AVZ’s technical team considered to be of such high
standard that logging and check work by AVZ’s independent consultant will
suffice. Indicative slope design angles are expected to be available around mid-December which will then be used in the mine design of the initial open pit at Roche Dure. 