The Marshall Liberal Government will be the first government globally to host a $250,000 crowd sourced open data competition to fast-track the discovery of mineral deposits in South Australia. ExploreSA: The Gawler Challenge partners with open innovation platform, Unearthed, in a world-wide call for geologists and data scientists to uncover new exploration targets in the state’s Gawler Craton region. Using the Geological Survey of South Australia’s historical records, primary data and research, the competition combines geological expertise with new mathematical, machine learning and artificial intelligence to increase the number of potential drill targets across central South Australia. Read: Australian-first qualification in automation receives accreditation “This state-of-the-art competition has the
potential to unearth the next Olympic Dam or Carrapateena by encouraging global
thinkers and innovators to interrogate our open-file data and generate new
exploration models and ideas for targeting,” said Minister van Holst Pellekaan. “The Marshall Liberal Government is thinking
outside the square to drive investment and jobs in South Australia’s vital
resources sector. “Mining is one of the pillars of the South
Australian economy and this competition should add to the pipeline of projects
in the resources and minerals processing sector. “Our existing inventory of discoveries
suggest there are major prospects and many other deposit styles and commodities
to be identified and this will only serve to bring those internationally
significant discoveries forward. “ExploreSA is an example of the bold and
progressive thinking required to assist industry in accelerating the state’s
annual economic growth rate to three per cent.” All targets generated, including those from
the winners of the $250,000 prize pool, will be publicly shared to increase
innovation and understanding in the resources sector by enabling access to data
science approaches and modern geoscience thinking. Unearthed Industry Lead – Crowdsourcing,
Holly Bridgwater said the competition served to leverage data science to its
full potential at a time when significant new discoveries are becoming rarer. “This exciting crowdsourcing competition and
world-class open dataset will attract a global community of innovators, some
whom won’t have worked in the mining industry before,” Bridgwater said. “We can’t wait to see how they will apply
their diverse skills, fresh ideas and novel approaches to mineral exploration
to accelerate discovery in South Australia.” Crowd sourced competitions are a fresh, leading method to test new ideas and find solutions, which can also result in start-up companies, new jobs and opportunities. 