Building on from the success of the 2019 Mining Indaba, industry experts from across the value chain will tackle topics including the industry’s role in addressing climate change and decarbonisation and sustainability measure for investment in the next decade. The main stage will once again host CEOs, ministers and possibly even be a president or two. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 11, 2019Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here Tom Quinn, head of content at Investing in
Africa’s Mining Indaba provides an overview of what delegates can expect from
the 2020 programmes and gives an overview of the brand-new theme ‘Optimising growth
and investment in the digitised mining economy’. The theme for 2020 Mining Indaba is ‘Optimising growth and investment in the digitised mining economy’, can you explain why this was decided? Digitisation has
gone from concept to reality and is now a way of life in a global context. From
the perspective of business, we are increasingly engaging with digitised,
automated and even AI systems whether it be through operations, supply chains
or the financial ecosystem that underpins the way in which we do business. The whole concept
of the fourth industrial revolution is now becoming more mainstream and we can
see this in our industry from automated mines, blockchain incubators securing
the transparency of mined materials, safety technologies to reduce accidents, and
our ongoing interaction with data in which to grow mining in a more efficient
and sustainable way. 2019’s Mining Indaba focused on sustainability which is now in the DNA of most mining operations globally. In a similar way, digitisation is not just a technology issue, it has challenges and opportunities throughout the natural resources value chain and that is why it’s such an important focus for us in this edition. What discussions will be taking place at Mining
Indaba that tackle the theme? As we always
strive to do at Mining Indaba, we’re offering a range of content formats and
topics which will resonate with multiple stakeholders along the mining and
natural resources value chain. The issue of digitisation and harnessing new
technologies will be included in many sessions from the Main Plenary stage, the
Sustainable Development day, and Junior Mining Showcase – to our Young Leaders
programme and, of course, our extended Mining 2050 platform. Each of the
sessions with explore, and platform issues in connection to mining’s fourth
industrial revolution, including: The Brand of Mining, Mining and the Dawn of
the Fourth Industrial Revolution, Winning Back the Millennial Generation: How
Should Mining Companies Position Themselves to Attract Millennial Investors?,
Mining in South Africa and the YES Initiative Looking at Digital Career Paths,
and Preparing for the Fourth Industrial Revolution: How Can African Mining
Position Itself for Growth and Avoid the Shocks of Potential Automation. With digitisation bringing more than $425 billion of value for the mining industry, it’s clear to see that opportunities are lucrative and vital not to be left behind. How is the content at Mining Indaba highlighting this across the three days? As that figure suggests,
the potential investment opportunities in digital optimisation for the mining
industry are enormous. Given the fundamental goal of Mining Indaba to platform
debate at the forefront of industry challenges and opportunities, we have
listened to our audience and we are delighted to announce the expansion of our
Mining 2050 tech-focused content offering over two days. Leading innovators, tech experts and pioneering start-ups will share knowledge and showcase solutions to drive the future of mining. Topic areas will include the digitised supply chain, blockchain applications to resource transparency, automation and robotics in HSE, IIoT and digital twinning to solve complex mining problems. We are excited to innovate our Mining Indaba content to help upskill our executive delegates and engage mining’s leaders of tomorrow. Researchers predict that
harnessing the value of digitalisation can generate a potential
economic impact, what can governments do to support digitalisation? The whole digital ecosystem in the context of Africa presents an incredible generational opportunity. Moving into the digital economy has the potential to accelerate solutions to combat poverty, unemployment and inequality, and at Mining Indaba we want to be part of the initiatives which have these goals in mind. The
African Union (AU) Agenda 2063 is a blueprint to support the continent’s
accelerated growth, tech transformation, and to drive the benefits of a
digitised economy.  So, with the
unpresented policy and government support, as well as local economy
encouragement will help turn this into a reality in Africa’s mining
communities. The
AU agenda is aligned to South Africa’s own National Development Plan (NDP) 2030
vision of transforming the country into an inclusive and innovative digital
society. With Mining Indaba’s ability to attract over 35 pan-African government
ministers and its global status as the world’s largest mining investment
platform, we are in a unique position to help highlight synergies between
government policy and investment, and industry innovation to push Africa’s
mining industry to the forefront of digital and economic growth. Are there any new additions to the 2020 programme, what
can the delegates expect? We
have just launched the General Counsel Forum dedicated to tackling legal issues
unique to those working in the mining sector. It provides a platform for law
firms and in-house legal teams to connect and widen their industry. As
Pan-Africa regional legal systems can be complex, we will bring together
Africa’s finest legal minds to debate and share knowledge on Africa’s resources
sector. Focusing on how companies can navigate the opportunities and challenges
in the sector by strengthening portfolio management, examining falling
productivity against increasing costs and M&A market updates. The forum
will take place on 6 February in partnership with Africa Legal. Once
again, Mining Indaba will provide delegates with unmatched content, as well as
access to the entire mining industry value chain and influential players in the
market, from the world’s biggest industry giants to tomorrow’s barrier-breaking
disruptors. Attracting more junior, mid-tier and major mining companies, more investors and as always, the largest gathering of mining Ministers in Africa. We’ve got no plans of slowing down, bringing you an even bigger Mining Indaba in 2020. This coupled with the enhanced sophisticated business matchmaking and expanded IR team means meeting your next business partner just got easier. 