Red Dot Europe recently welcomed Trysome Auto-Electrical Engineering into its global network of heavy-duty mobile HVAC units and parts dealers to reach customers throughout southern Africa. The new partnership enables Red Dot to expand its global footprint while granting aftermarket customers greater access to its selection of industry-leading products for operator comfort and safety. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 11, 2019Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here Customers can now purchase Red Dot products through Trysome’s branches located in South African provinces Gauteng, KwaZulu Natal, Mpumalanga, North West, Northern Cape and Western Cape and across the border in Botswana, Mozambique, Zambia and Namibia. The company is southern Africa’s largest single-source supplier of heavy-duty auto-electrical components and collision avoidance systems, provides specialised auto-electrical and replacement components, technical services and collision avoidance systems for mining machinery. “We are thrilled to partner with Trysome as a global Red Dot distributor,” says Andy Elshaw, MD of Red Dot Europe. “This new relationship presents a tremendous opportunity for both Trysome and Red Dot to serve heavy-duty fleets throughout the region, and foster relationships in this leading market for mining as well as construction and agricultural equipment.” Red Dot offers a range of industrial mobile HVAC units, parts and
components for transport and heavy machinery. With heating and cooling
solutions developed for trucking, agriculture, industrial and construction
applications, all Red Dot units and parts are built to last in any demanding
environment. “Operators and fleet managers know that the quality and reliability of
Red Dot’s products is unrivaled, and we are proud to be able to offer them to
our customers as a member of Red Dot’s global distributor network,” adds Eddie
Smith, CEO and founder of Trysome. Not only does Red Dot design and manufacture complete HVAC units and kits for rooftops, trailers and cabins, it is also a full-line distributor of condensers, compressors, filters, thermostats, switches, fans and many other replacement parts for OE units. 