The mining industry understands the need to modernise, the move towards adapting and changing a +100 year old industry has been difficult as the industry lacks digital technology in the face of the continuous change brought about by digital and the now imposing Industrie 4.0 (4IR), writes CHANTELLE KOTZE. “Having the right information with the right person at the right time allows for a proactive response by management, which is critical in a mining environment”, says JEAN-JACQUES VERHAEGHE, programme manager for  (RTIMS) at the Mandela Mining Precinct. 4IR: The future of mining is now There is poor situational awareness underground as a result of limited interpretation capability of real-time data as well as audio and visual communications in particular for South Africa’s deep-level mines, which has necessitated the need for better use of the information generated within a mine. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 10, 2019Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here Within the Mandela Mining Precinct, the need to modernise the mining industry is recognised as being greater than just the introduction of mechanisation with large capital equipment. Modernisation refers to the improvement in process through the use of technology which at its core has a people-centric approach. Thus the ability to convert data into information, wisdom and ultimately, knowledge, is essential and independent of the type of mining method used – be that conventional or mechanised. The Real-Time Information Management Systems (RTIMS) programme has been developed to address this in a holistic manner and aims to improve data transmission, storage, dissemination, and information management tools, practices, and procedures for mining companies. The real thrust of the research has therefore been towards managing and interpreting data to achieve a real-time decision making framework at the working place that can be implemented before the next shift starts to enable smarter and more accurate decision making that can improve the safety and efficiency of mining operations, explains Verhaeghe. Taking the leap into 4IR While RTIMS is one of
the key ways to prepare the mining industry for embracing 4IR as it is capable
of providing a holistic, integrated model by which to futureproof technology
and equipment, it is difficult to determine to what extent mining companies are
preparing for 4IR, which is a concern from a technology perspective as
futureproofing (from a digital technology perspective) is generally not high up
on agenda of most mining companies. “The overarching objective of the RTIMS research is to develop Industrial Internet of Things (IIOT) and information and communications technology (ICT) frameworks and standards for digital technology adoption and applications in the mining industry,” Verhaeghe highlights. He notes the importance of this as a means to assist mining companies that have previously been burned by investing in incompatible solutions for the long term. A major focus of the research to date has therefore been
to address the scalability and interoperability of these digital systems (also
known as smart connected systems) as there are currently several
white elephants at mining companies that have been sold, i.e point solutions, which
are unable to deliver on what was promised. “We therefore want to create or adopt a holistic RTIMS architecture
for multipurpose requirements by developing or adopting common open-source
tools and components required to enable these solutions which will fit into an
end-to-end IIOT architecture,” explains Verhaeghe, adding that the mining industry has therefore tasked the RTIMS programme with
the development of standards that suppliers of ICT and IoT or operational
technology or software or data will have to comply with, as a means to de-risking
the process of investment for them. There is a perception that the mining industry lags in
terms of digital transformation and is not ready to take the leap into 4IR. This
is especially true when one considers that the biggest challenge lies in the
industry’s inability to effectively use the data that is captured. RTIMS programme roadmap Currently nearing the
end of the second year of the three-year programme, the 16 work packages within
the RTIMS programme are at an average Technology Readiness Level of between 4
and 5, which is just one step away from the prototyping of development of a
proof of concept. To date, the RTIMS research team has identified and
refined the mining industry’s requirements and designed and proven some of its
concepts. The next step in the programme roadmap is to prove the integration of
these concepts by the end of 2020. “We will imminently begin designing the holistic model
through which we will integrate these 16 components to ensure interoperability
of the entire system,” says Verhaeghe. While many of the 16 work packages entail the reconfiguration of existing technology, some of the work packages are testing the limits in terms of what has been done in the past. One such example, says Verhaeghe, is using artificial intelligence at the edge, to improve and optimise proximity detection and collision avoidance systems underground. The focus is on predictive behaviour of the movement of machines and or people, timeously, before the potential of an unwanted collision situation arises. Some of the successes by the RTIMS team to date has
been advancing the integration of some of the core RTIMS work packages
(including IOT, data, underground communications, sensors, visualisation and
positioning and modelling concepts), proving the concept of a new underground
communications technology, the ability to convert an analogue signal to digital
as well as the ability to accommodate hybrid solutions for existing mines with
legacy infrastructure. Pursuing localisation “As part of addressing and completing the research and development component of the RTIMS programme, we want to localise and commercialise the solutions within South Africa through the Mining Equipment Manufacturers of South Africa (MEMSA) – a mining industry cluster (housed within the Mandela Mining Precinct) – which aims to grow the local supply chain of capital equipment for the mining industry,” says Verhaeghe. By making use of open-source tools and components, the
enabling system infrastructure components and designs can be made available
royalty-free to mines and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to ensure its
wide adoption, further ensuring interoperability of all the seemingly disparate
systems, and to overcome proprietary lock-ins by service providers. Additionally, local ecosystems of products and services
can be built. There will be a utility gain for mines and an economic multiplier
effect by opening the ecosystem of RTIMS-based solutions to local OEMs. Driving innovation
for future sustainability The rationale behind the establishment of the Mandela
Mining Precinct was
to create a single, central entity to guide, co-ordinate and deliver
technological innovations and solutions for the mining industry. This moves away from
decentralised organisational initiatives which take place in a discrete fashion
where inherent in this situation is the unwarranted duplication of efforts and
lack of critical mass essential to
research and development. A year since its establishment in September 2018 and each of the six research programmes have made significant headway in co-ordinating their research activities to develop people, processes and technology – the integration of all of these together towards the creation of a more modern mining industry.  