Process plant technology has become a necessity for mines looking to maximise their operating performance by keeping costs low, throughput high and downtime to a minimum. FLSmidth’s automated SmartCyclone system is a solution that delivers in all three areas for cyclone circuits, a vital processing element in any plant. FLSmidth’s SmartCyclone is a
monitoring and control solution for reducing cyclone-related process deviations.
It also improves cyclone overflow particle size distribution, predicts and
controls cyclone maintenance schedules, and optimises closed-circuit grinding
processes. This equates to monitoring the
performance of individual cyclones within a circuit in real time, preventing
unplanned breakdowns from occurring and monitoring wear rates while ensuring
the cyclones are always optimal. This translates into higher efficiencies in
the plant and ultimately, higher profitability. The SmartCyclone closed circuit
grinding optimisation system combines a variety of FLSmidth patented
technologies which includes the FLSmidth Krebs SmartCyclone wear detection
sensor technology as well as the Krebs’ patented roping sensor technology with
patent-pending wireless controller system. This technology immediately
identifies if a cyclone is malfunctioning. The closed-circuit grinding
optimisation system also incorporates FLSmidth’s ECS/ProcessExpert process
control software with a new patent-pending SmartWear cyclone maintenance
algorithm. One of the largest benefits
associated with this software is the ability to develop a uniform operation
strategy that outlines the best way to run the plant. Once this strategy has
been established, the necessity to train new operators is reduced. Reducing or eliminating manual operation, which decreases the potential for human error, is in fact one of the overarching benefits of SmartCyclone. FLSmidth has more recently enhanced its Krebs SmartCyclone system with wireless technology that enhances installation simplicity by eliminating the need for individual nodes and the interconnecting cables between the sensors and nodes and associated controllers. It utilises a central
wireless controller that can handle up to 16 sensors per unit; providing
real-time wireless detection and communication of roping and/or wear data. The
new wireless controller unit is a handheld device that can be removed from its
docking/charging station to sync the individual sensors. Once it’s removed, it goes into battery power mode and the user can walk to a desired sensor, activate it with a magnet; trigger and set the necessary operating parameters. 