ASX-listed Golden Rim Resources is pleased with the results of initial exploration on the two new permits in Burkina Faso. Burkina Faso – Golden Rim is currently acquiring the Goueli and Margou permits, immediately adjacent to the eastern boundary of the company’s Kouri Gold Project. The mineralisation at Kouri appears to extend into the Goueli and Margou permits providing significant potential to further increase the mineral resource. Golden Rim has executed a Share Purchase Agreement and the
company’s shareholders have approved the issue of shares in consideration for
the Goueli and Margou permits. With completion of the acquisition expected
shortly, Golden Rim has commenced reconnaissance exploration on the two
permits, in addition to the drilling programme currently being undertaken at
Kouri. New resource identified A new NE-trending gold bearing structure, parallel to the
gold lodes that comprise the current 1.4Moz gold Mineral Resource at Kouri, has
been identified. This new structure extends for at least 3 km and is located 1km SW of the Mineral Resource. Rock chip samples results up to 9.2g/t gold and 6.1g/t gold have been obtained from artisanal workings. Several scattered previous RC drill holes in the area failed to test the structure. A high-grade gold cross-structure has also been identified, 1.5 km east of the mineral resource. Initial rock chip sampling of artisanal workings along the structure has returned 42.8g/t gold, 32.1g/t gold and 22.4g/t gold. Golden Rim’s managing director, Craig Mackay, said: “We are
very pleased with the initial results of our exploration on the Goueli and
Margou permits which confirm the significant potential of these new permits. We
have already identified high-grade gold in both parallel structures and
cross-structures lying to the east of the current 1.4Moz mineral resource that
offer additional drilling targets. “There are many more such structures within the Samira Hill Shear Zone, which extends for 24 km through the Goueli and Margou permits, that remain completely unexplored. "We are also excited about the multiple zones of granite hosted mineralisation that have been outlined in our mapping of artisanal workings and trenches within a broad corridor at the Granite Target area. We eagerly await the assay results from our trench sampling across these zones,” he concluded.