ASX-listed Aura Energy has signed a farm-in / joint venture agreement to extend its already significant position in the Tasiast Archean Greenstone Belt. The agreement has been executed with Nomads Mining Company of Mauritania and allows Aura to earn a 70% interest in Nomads 100% owned exploration permit. The exploration permit of 160 km2 covers 50 km2 of Archean greenstones in the Tasiast greenstone belt. The exploration permit lies approximately 35 km along strike from Kinross’ giant +20 Moz Tasiast Gold Mine and 30 km from Algold's Tijirit gold deposits which occur in the adjoining greenstone belt. Algold have reported a resource of +1
million ounces of gold at Tijirit. The Nomads permit adjoins and is along
strike from Aura’s Taet exploration permit which covers +30 km strike length of
the Tasiast greenstones. Peter Reeve, Aura Energy's Executive
Chairman says: “We are delighted with this strategic
addition to our project area in the Tasiast gold district. It is unusual today
to be able to obtain access to virtually unexplored greenstone belts in
established gold bearing provinces such as this. “Aura Energy is excited at the potential given the 20 Moz Tasiast Gold deposit is the only known significant gold resource in a field where little exploration has been conducted and in a geological setting where gold deposits tend to occur in clusters elsewhere in the word.” “Aura Energy will maintain its core focus in Mauritania of getting the Tiris Uranium Project DFS completed and the project into production as soon as possible. “However, given our extensive knowledge of Mauritania and our planned activities in adjoining areas, this presents another high-quality opportunity in a country Aura Energy knows well. “It is an excellent opportunity, in our
opinion, to add significant shareholder value for Aura Energy”, Reeve continues. Aura is not aware of any significant
prior exploration on the permit area despite the area being previously held by
Normandy La Source during the 1990s. The area of the Nomads permit, which is
close to the large Tasiast mine, has not been exposed to modern exploration
techniques. Initial field geological work indicates
the greenstone sequences within the Nomads permit and within Aura’s nearby
tenement holdings have strong similarities in age (late Archean) and geology
with those of the prolifically mineralised greenstone belts in the Yilgarn
Province of Western Australia and the Superior Province in Canada. In the Mauritanian Archean greenstone
belts, there is currently only one operating mine operated by Kinross at
Tasiast, and one other reported gold resource at Tijirit held by Algold. Aura is of the belief that the reason for the difference in apparent gold mineralisation intensity in Mauritania relative to other late Archean greenstone belts is very likely due to the lack of exploration over much of Mauritania. On Aura’s Taet permit adjoining the
Nomads permit to the south, anomalous values of nickel and cobalt have been
reported. Nickel and cobalt mineralisation are
also common in similar rocks in other Archean greenstones such as the Yilgarn
Province in Australia and the Superior Province in Canada, and on this basis,
it is Aura’s belief that potential for similar occurrences in the Nomads permit
area is good. Aura also believes that these lightly
explored greenstone belts in Mauritania, with only one producing gold mine,
represent some of the best under-explored greenstone belt targets in the world. On the Nomads permit area Aura is
planning a program of: