TSXV-listed Alphamin Resources Corp. has completed C4 commissioning of the processing plant at its Bisie tin project in the Democratic Republic of Congo. C4 commissioning involves feeding the system with
material, checking instrumentation calibration, process flows and individual
equipment throughput and building up to instantaneous design throughput. A C4
certificate indicates that a unit or the entire system is complete and can
operate with material. C5,
the final stage of the commissioning process, is achieved when the facility has
run at and held at full continuous production at nameplate capacity for a
duration of 48 hours. Alphamin
Resources admits that attaining C5 and the ramp up to nameplate capacity is
taking longer than expected, as aspects of the processing plant operations are being
refined and optimised. Concentrate
produced during commissioning and the plant ramp up, are being delivered to Gerald
Metals in Kampala – which has taken delivery of 96 t of concentrate to date. A further 192 t is on route to Kampala from Logu,
the location of Alphamin’s marshalling yard for tin exports. From here, a
further 240 t is being cleared for export prior to departing for Kampala. Total production to date has been 528 t, Alphamin
Resources notes. Nameplate production is expected to be achieved during H2 2019.
To avoid requiring any additional funding Alphamin requires break even
production of circa 800 tpm of concentrate be achieved by July 2019. Moreover, Sound Mining Solutions is nearing completion
of the revised mine design, which once complete, the NI 43-101 will be updated,
while the Directorate General of Taxes has informed Alphamin Resources that its
VAT disbursements will be forthcoming. Meanwhile, The South Africa’s Industrial Development
Corporation (IDC) has noted that it will be matching its pro rata share of the
recent US$15 million in equity raised by Alphamin Resources in May, to maintain
its 14.25% shareholding in Alphamin Resources’ local subsidiary Alphamin Bisie
Mining SA. Alphamin Resources CEO Boris Kamstra is attending this year’s edition of DRC Mining Week which is currently under way in Lubumbashi. Mining Review Africa conducted an on-site video interview with Kamstra at the event, which will be published on our YouTube channel soon.