Millennials have been dubbed the most ‘impatient generation’ in the workplace, with over 90% wanting ‘rapid career progression.’ Almost 70% of employers believe that this level of ambition and desire
is the leading cause of conflict between generations – with a third of
Generation X (34%) and a quarter of Baby Boomers (24%) and Millennials (24%)
agreeing with this. The findings come from a Robert Walters whitepaper, which surveyed over
2,000 respondents to find out what it takes to retain millennial professionals. Nic Sephton-Poultney, Managing Director at Robert Walters South Africa comments: “According to our survey almost 60% of workers have experienced
intergenerational conflict in the workplace. As Millennials make up a growing
part of the workforce, finding a way for members of different generations to
work together effectively is an increasingly high priority.” “Making sure that managers understand what motivates workers from
different generations, how they like to communicate, and identifying common
sources of conflict is essential to creating a strong team of varied
generations and diversity of opinions.” Sources of inter-generational conflict in the
workplace According to the Robert Walters report, three quarters of professionals
(73%) have left a job because of poor company culture. Over half of Millennials
reported that poor company culture was a source of disappointment in a new job,
with 90% claiming that they research the culture in advance of taking an
opportunity. Whilst a third of Millennials felt that meeting their colleagues in a
social setting was important, this contrasts with just 15% of Generation X and
less than 1% of Boomers who value social outings with colleagues. Millennials widely perceive technology to be at the root of workplace
conflicts. 34%reported that older workers not understanding new technology was
the chief cause of these conflicts, followed by younger workers becoming
frustrated at using outdated technology (33%). Millennial professionals are also distinct from their older colleagues
in their attitudes towards social media. Almost 40% of Millennials felt that
employers should actively encourage workers to incorporate social media into
their work, compared to less than a quarter (24%) of Generation X and just 10%
of Baby Boomers. Employers and employees from Generation X and Baby Boomers believe that
Millennials are far more pampered than was ever the norm in the workplace –
with their demands for time and a tailored approach way out of line with
general expectations. Whilst only 15% of employers believe personalised training programs to
be necessary, over a third of Millennials rank this as one of the most
important factors in retention. In fact, 53% of millennials have been
disappointed by the lack of a properly implemented personal development plan or
training program when starting a new job. The demand of senior managements time is further exasperated by an
overwhelming 91% of Millennials who would like to receive formal feedback at
least every six months, with 60% stating that they would like this as often as
every one to three months. Given that Millennials have the most formal education of any generation
in history, being likely to hold at least a bachelor’s degree already, the
chance to earn qualifications on the job is their lowest priority – unlike
fellow colleagues from older generations. When asked what they believed employers value most in potential workers,
59% of Millennials gave personality fit with the team or company culture as a
top priority. In contrast, 53% of employers felt that hard technical skills
were highly important in potential employees. Over half (52%) of Millennials said that the opportunity to develop
their career abroad was important to them, compared to less than a third (31%)
of Generation X and 15% of Boomers. Sephton-Poultney states: “One of the side effects of growing up in the digital age is that
Millennials often see themselves as ‘citizens of the world’, having grown up in
an environment where access to the internet means that geographical boundaries
are far less important than they had been in the past. What do Millennials expect from their employer? A competitive salary was rated important by all generations, but particularly for ambitious Millennials where salary is largely seen as a reflection of their status and success. In fact, 96% of Millennials rated a competitive pay and bonus system as important, and 25% stated that this would be the number one reason they would change jobs. Sephton-Poultney adds: “It’s important to note that during the down turn, over half (53%) of
Millennials took a job with a lower salary than expected. As such, employers
should be mindful that this may be a contributing factor as to why salary and
remuneration are so important to Millennials. “It also means that as we move out of economic uncertainty they will expect
their salaries to catch up to their expectations.” Millennials want more than just a job – they want a career, with 69%
citing a clear path for progression in the business as the most important
factor in keeping them engaged. Sephton-Poultney adds: “It is perhaps unsurprising that for Millennials at the outset of their
careers, a clear path to progression is the most effective motivator. However,
this reflects not just the youth but also the ambition of this generation. “Millennials have grown up being told they are capable of achieving
anything and this confidence means that they crave responsibility early in
their careers.” In fact, 54% of Millennials state that having the opportunity to
‘exercise influence’ in the workplace is a key way to keep them engaged and
remain with their current employer. Millennials do not shy away from responsibility, and they want to know
what needs to be done to earn it. Of all generations surveyed, Millennials
placed the highest value on transparency over how they could achieve progress
in their career. 71% of Millennials strongly agreed that their employer should provide
clear guidelines over earning bonuses or promotions. However, 40% of employers
do not currently do this. During the recession many Millennials struggled to find jobs that met
their expectations. 31% reported that they had taken work in a sector that they
did not wish to work in. Now, as the economic outlook improves, many are ready
to change jobs to find a new role that better suits their ambitions. Sephton-Poultney advises: “Employers looking to retain Millennial employees should consider giving
them the option to move around the business to find a position that better
suits their desired career path, particularly given that 70% of Millennials
consider job rotation within the business one of the most important aspects of
their job.” Read more on this research here: