Researchers at the recent African Utility Week and POWERGEN Africa raised concerns over decreased expenditure on water security research amidst serious drought problems across  Southern Africa. There are reportedly more than 2 billion people worldwide in countries with severe water constraints and the African continent is no exception. AUTHOR: Alicestine October Research fellow at the Nelson Mandela University Dr Hlamulo Makelane told delegates at the conference and exhibition in Cape Town in May, that South Africa is a water scarce country, yet expenditure on research and development for water security does not reflect this picture. Makelane said funding for research declined over the last five years which is highly problematic. “The expenditure in R&D declined by approximately 45% over the five years period (2009/10 - 2013/14). This is scary because as we speak the  country has a water road map and I hope we will be putting up more  money.” According to her research and development have a direct impact on resource management and promotes training and capacity building  in the sector, she said. “It can lead to creative solutions and help  influence how people and society behave. Makelane also stressed the need for intersectoral funding between  government and the private sector for more progress towards resourcevsecurity. “We need to encourage collaboration. Government policy on should be informed by research and development so that we do not  end up doing what we have always done. We need creative solutions to  translate research into usable information.” In this regard scientific publications in water research should be translated into sector-wide innovation, covering both demand management and new approaches to the  management of  resources,” she said. She told delegates there are  initiatives underway for policy and science exchanges to help facilitate  this. According to Makelane water security is integral to the SDGs  (Sustainable Development Goals). She said the SDGs cannot be achieved without water security. Chief Executive Officer of Malawi’s Central  Region Water Board Gift Sageme in an earlier interview also underscored  the importance of security being integral to all facets of  society. He said what surprises him most about the sector is the  way governments tend to put it behind all other sectors like energy,  roads, agriculture and health. “What they don't realise, however, is  that without water no sector can survive.” Makelane reminded delegates South Africa is a water scarce country and to secure the resource it needs to improve demand management, storage and  protect sources more effectively to not lose the little resources  that are available. “This all starts with investing in research because this is how we will know how to plan and decide what dams and reservoirs to build where.” Issued by: African Utility Week and POWERGEN Africa Twitter: #AUW2019   #PGAF2019 Contact: Senior communications manager:  Annemarie Roodbol Telephone:  +27 21 700 3558 Mobile:  +27 82 562 7844