IronRidge Resources has successfully used trenching to define wide and long pegmatite intersections at the Ewoyaa West target – just one of the multiple pegmatite targets within the Cape Coast lithium portfolio located in Ghana, West Africa. Ghana – Over 940 m of new trenching and
1 640 pits have been dug over the Ewoyaa project area; both ongoing as an
effective exploration tool. Ongoing pitting and trenching activities within the Ewoyaa project area has defined over 840 m strike of continuous weathered pegmatite up to 100 m wide at surface at the Ewoyaa West target, which dips shallowly towards the east. A total of 525 m in four
trenches was completed at the Ewoyaa West target, while additional pegmatite
has been intersected in pitting to the south, providing potential for a further
total of 1.25 km strike at the Ewoyaa West target. A fifth trench was extended 190
m east to test pitting intersections in-between Ewoyaa and Ewoyaa West. The fifth trench intersected 65
m of continuous weathered pegmatite which remains open to the north and south
in what is now called the Ewoyaa Middlings target. Both new targets coincide with a low-lying ridge, with no
pegmatite visible at surface. This is significant as it increases the potential
for additional ‘blind’ pegmatite discoveries that have not yet been tested by
pitting. Additional sub-parallel ridges are evident within the topography in
the immediate project area which will be tested by ongoing pitting programmes. The newly identified pegmatite zones are significant as they
enlarge the surface area by 50% within the immediate Ewoyaa project area;
allowing for potential resource increases and within easy trucking distance for
potential future mine development. Not only does pitting and trenching provide valuable
geological observations of the pegmatites which are otherwise not seen at
surface nor in auger drilling programmes, but it also provides youth employment
within the local communities rather than utilising machinery. “Pegmatites often occur in clusters and pitting and
trenching are proving to be a successful tool for defining additional pegmatites
within the immediate Ewoyaa project area through weathered cover where no outcropping
pegmatite is visible,” says IronRidge Resources COO Len Kolff. “We have effectively increased the known
outcropping pegmatite surface area by approximately 50% with the addition of
the Ewoyaa West target and with trenching ongoing at the Ewoyaa Middlings
target there is potential for further increases. “We have planned a phased reverse circulation (RC)
drill programme to test the new targets as well as extensions at the Ewoyaa
deposit, with drill access and pad planning underway. “Given the project’s significant mineralised
intersections, positive metallurgical results, proximity to infrastructure and
favourable jurisdiction, we are pleased to have awarded long lead environmental
and social baseline studies for future mine permitting to Ghanaian consultants
NEMAS which have now commenced,” says Kolff. IronRidge Reosurce CEO Vincent
Mascolo says the discovery of Ewoyaa West and Ewoyaa Middlings targets is extremely encouraging. “The decision to advance the Ewoyaa project area ahead of a maiden
resource estimate was predicated by the ongoing success with the discovery of
new pegmatites in the immediate project area, exceptional metallurgical test
work results and a robust treasury,” he says. Drill
Planning A phased RC and diamond core
drilling (DD) drill programme has been designed to test the Ewoyaa West target,
Middlings target and strike extensions over the known Ewoyaa and Abonko
deposits. Final meterage will be
commensurate with initial confirmation of spodumene or other lithium mineral
phases below base of weathering at Ewoyaa West and Middlings targets to justify
the second phase. Additional DD drilling has been
planned over the Ewoyaa West target and Abonko for future metallurgical
test-work and geological control. Drilling is planned to commence during Q3 2019 after the current wet season, weather permitting. Drill access and pad planning is underway and a total 13 200 m of RC and DD drilling has been planned.