Aim-listed Arc Minerals has commenced an initial 7 500 m drilling programme at its Zamsort/Zaco copper projects located in the Zambian Copperbelt, adjacent to world-class operating copper mines. Zambia –
During 2018, Arc Minerals conducted a comprehensive high-resolution airborne
geophysical survey over its Zamsort and Zaco projects. The licenses cover in
excess of 850 km² and host a large number of targets in addition to the Kalaba
copper-cobalt prospect. Arc
Minerals has appointed a local drilling contractor with significant experience
in the Copperbelt and two diamond drill rigs have commenced drilling. The
drilling programme is designed to test the company’s large highest-priority
targets – the Cheyeza anomaly – as well as the Lumbeta and Muswema
targets in addition to other targets generated through the comprehensive
geophysical and soil sampling programme. "Over the past year our technical team with the help of highly
experienced external exploration consultants have completed a detailed
geophysical survey and extensive soil sampling programme which has yielded some
excellent results indicating that we may have a number of high-potential
prospects within our Zamsort licence, says Arc Minerals executive chairman Nick von Schirnding. The
completion of the airborne geophysical survey and broad spaced soil geochemical
programme by Xcalibur Airborne Geophysics last year, which covered the entire
license areas and comprised 5 218 line-kilometres, resulted in the
identification of 12 anomalous target areas within the Zamsort-Zaco license
areas. Since then,
further infill soil sampling over the 10 km x 8 km Cheyeza region has been
completed using an Olympus Vanta XRF analyser. Over 6 000 of the 35 000 samples
collected over the licence area have already been analysed, adding a further
target anomaly (Cheyeza Central). Of particular
interest is a 3 km by 0.8 km area at Cheyeza East where up to 2 792 ppm copper
in the soils has been identified. Arc Minerals mobilised
its drill rigs after receiving the results of its first infill soil
geochemistry programme which generated a large number of
drilling targets from the data and geological models. The infill
soil geochemical programme is continuing and at present the exploration team
are collecting and analysing soil samples over the Lumbeta target area and
thereafter will continue to cover the remaining target areas identified from
last year’s exploratory programmes.