Kodal Minerals has announced the completion of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) and various engineering studies at its Bougouni lithium project in southern Mali. Mali – Kodal Minerals has stated that the ESIA technical reports being compiled and finalised for submission to the authorities. Furthermore, ESIA community consultation meetings received a positive response to the proposed development from officials and the community. Also, project visits have been completed by engineering consultant groups to finalise mine and process planning. Bernard Aylward, CEO of Kodal Minerals, remarked, “I am delighted to announce that we have continued to make significant steps in advancing operations at our Bougouni lithium project. “The large amount of technical work that is currently
underway represents significant components of our upcoming Feasibility Study
and we are using the most experienced consultants to ensure we achieve the best
result.  Moreover, the completion of all specialist baseline studies for
the ESIA, combined with the completed community consultation, will allow us to
finalise our ESIA application and lodge it for approval. The ongoing support we
have received from the Mali Government and local community has been very
encouraging and demonstrates the significant interest in our project’s
development.” Drilling imminent Aylward added that the company has ended the contract for the completion of its bulk sampling programme at Bougouni due to poor performance of the contractor. "Currently we have over 980 tonnes of material at the port of Dakar for shipping to China and our in-depth discussions with the processing company, Ruifu Chemical of Shandong, have informed us that this size sample will provide very useful information nonetheless. Aylward added that the company has ended the contract for the completion of its bulk sampling programme at Bougouni due to poor performance of the contractor. "Currently we have over 980 tonnes of material at the port of Dakar for shipping to China and our in-depth discussions with the processing company, Ruifu Chemical of Shandong, have informed us that this size sample will provide very useful information nonetheless. It is clear that this sample, combined with our ongoing metallurgical testwork, will allow us to optimise the future mining and processing of lithium spodumene at the Bougouni Project.”  Kodal Minerals expects to commence a drilling programme in June 2019 with key targets identified within the Mafele West concession, which is close to Birimian’s Goulamina Project, as well as drilling additional targets within its own Bougouni project that are in close proximity to the existing resources.