AIM-listed gold and base metals explorer Oriole Resources has defined significant gold anomalism during the Phase 2 soils programme at the Wapouzé project in Cameroon, where it is earning up to a 90% interest. Cameroon – The Wapouzé gold project is held by Bureau d'Etudes et d'Investigations Géologico-minières, Géotechniques et Géophysiques SARL (BEIG3), through its wholly-owned subsidiaries Reservoir Minerals (BVI) Cameroon and Reservoir Minerals Cameroon Sarl. The Phase 2 infill soil sampling at the Bataol Zone has returned up to 210 parts per billion (ppb) gold, providing support for the multiple >10 ppb gold-in-soil anomalies identified during the Phase 1 programme announced in March 2019, and defining more clearly the zones of higher-grade mineralisation within those anomalies. This includes a >60 ppb gold anomaly towards the southwestern-end of the Bataol Zone, which extends over a strike length of 1 km. "The ongoing
positive soils results from the infill sampling at the Bataol zone are very
encouraging,” says Oriole Resources CEO Tim Livesey. “Seeing 0.2 g/t gold peaks in soil sampling is a pretty good indicator
that there is potential for economic-grade gold in the system. "We are
particularly pleased to see confirmation and improved definition of the
anomalism at the south western end of the previously identified anomalous
trends. This area of multiple parallel soil anomalies creates a significant
footprint for potential mineralisation, which we will be
following up on as a priority during the next field season. "These results continue to support our position that the Wapouzé and Bibemi licences are highly prospective targets in a new frontier for modern gold exploration. "During the last year, since signing the option agreement with BEIG3, we have worked hard with our partner to deliver strong progress on both projects through systematic, extensive and low-cost exploration programmes. "Our ongoing studies will further develop the targets at Bibemi through the summer ahead of rig mobilisation for a drilling campaign in the next dry season later in 2019, and we intend to follow up on these anomalous areas at Wapouzé soon after," says Livesey. Soil sampling programme overview In the first quarter of 2019, Phase 1 systematic soil sampling was completed on a 400 m by 100 m grid to test the eastern portion of the Wapouzé licence. Results (up to 531 ppb of gold) identified two main zones of northeast-trending mineralisation, associated with shear-parallel quartz veins - the Bataol Zone (8 km by 5 km) in the north-east of the licence and the Bizdar Zone (2 km by 4 km) in the south-east of the licence. At Bataol, the Phase 1 results outlined multiple parallel >10 ppb gold anomalies, including three key anomalies extending over strikes of 8 km, 2.8 km and 2.2 km, respectively. In May, Oriole Resources reported that Phase 2 infill soil sampling (200 m by 100 m grid) had been completed over the main anomalies at Bataol in order to identify more discrete zones of higher-grade anomalism. Assays have now been received for 639 soil samples and 52 QAQC samples (representing 8% of all samples). Analysis of QAQC plots for standard certified reference materials, inserted blanks and duplicates has been completed and confirmed the data to be within acceptable ranges. The results from Phase 2 include a best grade of 210
ppb of gold, with three samples reporting greater than 100 ppb gold, 45 samples
>20 ppb gold and 123 samples >10 ppb gold. The soil results further confirm continuity of the
>10 ppb gold-in-soil anomalies reported for Phase 1 soil sampling and have
also defined more robust zones of higher-grade mineralisation within and
independent of these zones. Of particular note is a >60 ppb gold anomaly that
extends over an area of 1 km by 300 m within the previously-identified 2.8 km
anomaly in the centre of the Bataol Zone. This, and other areas of higher-grade
gold-in-soil anomalism, appear to be related to nearby northeast-trending
silicified and sheared metasedimentary unit. Thin section petrography and XRD analysis is currently
underway to help confirm the main lithologies and identify the key
mineralisation and alteration assemblages. In the meantime, the team is
designing the next programme of work at Wapouzé, ahead of the next dry season
which will commence in October 2019. Wapouzé is
located approximately 20 km to the north-east of the Bibemi project, where the
company is also earning up to 90% and has recently reported results for a Phase
1 trenching programme, including 9 m at 3.14 g/t gold.