As the pressure mounts on President Cyril Ramaphosa’s administration to resuscitate the South African economy, the question is shifting from what he plans to do to how he plans to do it. A
sure-fire way to catalyse South Africa’s economy back into growth is to invest
in local manufacturing and skills development, says Sean Jones from the Artisan
Training Institute (ATI). ATI
demonstrated a live skills exhibition at the Local Southern African
Manufacturing Expo (LME) that took place at the Nasrec Expo Centre from 21-23
May 2019. The expo
was the brainchild of the South African Capital Equipment Export Council (SACEEC),
the first of its kind in South Africa to promote only locally manufactured
products and services. SACEEC
CEO Eric Bruggeman shared startling statistics on the number of jobs that could
be created if South African businesses increase its focus on exports. “South
Africa doesn’t have an unemployment problem, it has an import problem,” said
Bruggeman at the event. “The South African economy imports close to $83.2-billion
each year. If only 50% of import spending is redirected to local manufacturing
and skills, about 13-million jobs could be created,” he says. “Over the years, growing middle income economies have achieved sustained growth by increasing export capacity and global competitiveness,” says Jones. “However, they rely on skills to enable this. The growth of the South African export market therefore depends heavily on the availability of the right skills to support local manufacturing”. Through
a strategic partnership between ATI and SACEEC, established in November 2018,
the two organisations are working closely together to ensure a better fit
between skills demand and skills supply, matching some of the industry’s core
skills gaps with that of ATI’s artisan throughput. “We
need to understand what kind of skills are in high demand from South African
manufacturers in order to respond appropriately,” says Jones. LME presented
an opportunity to demonstrate some artisan skills at the ATI Skills Development
Zone and in such a way gain better insights into industry’s artisan training
requirements. The Skills Development Zone, a 40 m2 exhibition space, comprised live demonstrations in an interactive workshop setting. Some of the engineering skills on display included fitting and turning, fabrication, welding, boiler making, electrical & instrumentation, as well as pneumatics, hydraulics and electro-pneumatics. The exhibition
demonstrated the different training options available to industry and served as
an encouragement to companies to invest in artisan training, while also motivating
young people to consider artisan training as an attractive career opportunity. ATI
has partnered with a few of its clients to give life to the skills exhibition.
SMC Pneumatics has made available equipment to the value of R1.5-million to display
its advanced processing and instrumentation technology in the form of process
plant scale models. MicroCare demonstrated some of its alternative power
equipment. ATI is currently providing short courses on alternative electricity
circuits. There
were also live fitting and turning skills on display. Busisiwe Malatji enrolled
on a fitting and turning qualification in 2016 under the Rand Water War Against Leaks programme. In June, she will write her trade test to qualify as a fitter and turner. Malatji was at the exhibition showcasing the skills she gained on the engineering lathe during her apprenticeship at ATI. She is one of many young women whose fitting and turning competencies will open new opportunities in a career that was previously dominated by men. “The exhibition brought together manufacturing heavyweights, all from Southern Africa,” says Bruggeman. “With thorough export strategies and adequate artisan training skills, we can turn the South African economy and unemployment around,” he concludes.