AIM-listed gold miner Shanta Gold has revealed some of the best exploration results to date from the second phase of its Bauhinia Creek drilling campaign at the New Luika gold mine in South Western Tanzania, conducted during the second quarter of 2019. Phase 2 of Shanta Gold’s 2019 drilling campaign at New Luika consisted of three diamond holes drilled at the Bauhinia Creek Central-West underground mine. The drilling targeted areas on the western side of the
ore body, below the existing reserves and mine plan.  Holes were drilled
from level 740 inclined at between -38.2 and 73.8 degrees and averaged 167.7 m
in depth with a maximum of 182.9 m down the hole. These results are over a strike length of 120 m with
holes spaced between 30 and 40 m sections. It is estimated that the true widths of the mineralised
zones are > 90% of the intersected widths in the holes. The mineralised
zones are presented by moderately dipping quartz veins hosted by granodioritic
rocks. Eric Zurrin, CEO,
comments: “It is of great encouragement to see such exceptional
grades and widths as we go deeper into the ore body. The vertical level of the
current mine plan is only 250 m below the portal and we look forward to further
exploring these high grade extensions in the second half of 2019.” “Mine life extension is the single biggest contributor to value for Shanta Gold shareholders given the quality of the ore body and we will be combining the phase 1 & 2 results into an updated resource estimate in July.” Within Bauhinia Creek, one of three active sources of ore currently being mined at New Luika; results from the Phase 2 drilling included: The new high grade intersections uncovered earlier in the year are
outside the existing mineral reserves and will be incorporated into the mine
plan. The new area is below the existing mineral reserves at Bauhinia Creek, exhibiting
higher grades and widths at depth. The strike length of high-grade mineralisation below the existing
reserves is estimated at 280 m and remains open at depth.