Following three successful editions of Kenya Mining Forum, organiser Spintelligent has broadened the reach and scope of this platform and is now firmly shining a spotlight on regional opportunities for mining and quarrying professionals in East and Central Africa as well as the Great Lakes region. Enter the new East and Central Africa Mining Forum (ECAMF), taking place in Kigali from 28 to 29 October 2019. This new event will provide a platform for investors, financiers, mining houses and services providers to start their journey into the industrialisation of the region – from exploration to operation as well as value addition and exports of minerals. This article first appeared in Mining Review
Africa Issue 5, 2019
Read
the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here “The time has come to embrace opportunities on a regional level,” says Elodie Delagneau, ECAMF event director. “With commodity prices higher than they have been in recent years as well as the drive for future demand, key mining hubs are looking to explore new territories. "The launch of ECAMF will assist them to find the right investment opportunity across the value chain, and help them to understand the needs and stages of the regional industry, the promising mining projects, from artisanal to large scale. “The modernisation of the mining sector is
crucial to grow the scale and productivity of mining projects. We are expecting
more than 700 mining professionals, including key stakeholders and decision
makers, to engage with leading suppliers in a collective effort to fast track
developments in the region,” she adds. Rwanda ripe for investment Meanwhile, Francis Gatare, CEO of the Rwanda Mining, Petroleum and Gas Board (RMB) which will host the ECAMF adds that Rwanda’s mining vision is fully aligned with the Africa Mining Vision (AMV). “In fact, when we were articulating Rwanda's national policy for mining, we built a very close working relationship with the AMC Institution, the AMDC (African Minerals Development Centre) and the African Union,” he explains. “Geology tends to be regional,” adds Gatare. “There is no single country that has a monopoly on its own geological endowments; they tend to be regional and similar in many regards. This makes it important to share geological information across the regions.”  Established in February 2017, the RMB is the body responsible for implementing and advising the government on issues related national policies, laws and strategies related to mines, petroleum and gas. Transforming the regional mining landscape “Growth is a major theme for the upcoming conference programme,” adds Delagneau. “The region is ready to maximise on its mineral potential and therefore needs to increase investments in exploration and value addition projects, improve productivity in the sector, encourage interregional minerals trading and finally, increase business opportunities for METS (Machinery, Equipment, Technology and Services) companies in the region. An important kick-start for this process is bringing together the mining companies and investors in the East and Central African regions.” Highlights of the conference programme at the event will include presentations, roundtables and discussions on: For more information visit the website