ASX-listed Volt Resources continues to advance a number of development funding strategies for the Stage 1 development of its Bunyu Graphite Project in Tanzania. Tanzania  – Volt Resources’ funding strategies include providing Volt Resources with the options of Note/Bond listings on both the Dar es Salaam (DSE) in Tanzania and the Stock Exchange of Mauritius (SEM) respectively. Following recently held in-country meetings and ongoing discussions with the Tanzanian Government, Volt Resources can report that the approval process for the Note Issue is nearing the final stages. Positive progress has also been made in respect to the company’s
proposed Bond Issue on the SEM, with a draft prospectus in the final stages of
preparation based on meeting the information and disclosure requirements for
the issue and listing of bonds by the SEM. Furthermore, discussions continue with North America and
Asia-based institutions via Exotix Capital. The institutions have demonstrated
a strong interest to provide funding for the development of Stage 1 of the
Bunyu project. Funding flexibility Volt Resources has been clear about its development funding
strategy and expects to be able to provide further updates over the coming
weeks as approval dates and precise Note/Bond prospectus offer and listing
timeframes become available. In the interim, the company has secured $100,000 in short
term working capital funding from two Directors on an unsecured, arm’s length
commercial term basis repayable on or before 15 July 2019. Volt Resources CEO Trevor Matthews commented, “The
opportunity to progress listings in both Tanzania and Mauritius will provide
Volt Resources with important funding flexibility and access to a much larger
pool of investors to raise the US$40 million needed to complete the Stage 1
development programme at Bunyu. “Although our Tanzanian listing process has taken longer
than originally forecast, it should be remembered that Volt is the first mining
company to pursue a DSE debt listing and we are now nearing the final stages of
the approval process which is very encouraging,” he concludes.