With the largest installed base of mill circuit (MC) pumps in the world, Weir Minerals’ reputation as a slurry pump expert remains firmly intact. To ensure it retains its status in the market, the company remains committed to enhancing the performance of this range, Weir Minerals Africa slurry pump product manager MARNUS KOORTS tells LAURA CORNISH. This article first appeared in Mining Review
Africa Issue 5, 2019
Read
the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here Engineered for the most aggressive duties, Weir
Minerals’ Warman MC pumps manage large size particles in highly abrasive
slurries. These pumps are designed for the most severe slurry applications such
as ball and SAG mill cyclone feed in minerals processing plants. Like any pump, or product, within the company’s portfolio, its MC range offers a variety of advantages designed to optimise its clients’ operating experience. “In addition to a reduction in wear life, our pump range is designed to be more energy efficient and is easier to maintain. We believe that service delivery and support are equally as important as our product, and are committed to ensuring excellent customer experience,” Koorts outlines. As one of the largest and toughest
heavy-duty pumps within the entire processing circuit, Weir Minerals, together
with its local arm in South Africa are committed to ensuring its MC range
offers increased productivity and decreased downtime. The high resilience rubber wear liner handles coarse particles and ball scats with ease, while its lightweight design facilitates safer handling. It is also costs less than traditional heavy metal liners. The Warman MCR pump incorporates the latest in hypereutectic alloy and elastomer technology, which significantly extends the wear life of the pump in highly abrasive and corrosive slurries, reducing operational costs. These attributes were demonstrated at Electra
Mining Africa 2018 where Weir Minerals Africa showcased its flagship MC
pump – the Warman MCR 450 pump, which excels in the above mentioned areas
compared to older generation pumps in the industry. The company is committed to further improving its MC
range and is already developing designs which will further reduce maintenance
requirements. The proof is in
the pudding A closer look at Weir Minerals’ recent installations
in Africa and beyond showcases the advantages of the MC range. Recently, Anglo
American Platinum’s Mogalakwena PGM mine collaborated closely with the local
Weir Minerals Africa team to increase its throughput and reduce energy
consumption on its existing Warman AH pumps which were pushed to maximum
capacity and were running in excess of optimal efficiency flow. The team proposed its Warman MCR 450 pump with rubber lining and a metal impeller as it offered a higher volumetric capacity in anticipation of a future increase in throughput requirements. The larger MCR pump impeller results in lower pump speeds and consequently less wear. The rubber liner of the MCR pump is also lighter and the hydraulic design has improved efficiency and wear characteristics. The full proposal included the Weir Minerals Africa service team retrofitting the pump without
disturbing existing motors, gearbox drives or pipework. The results were
immediately realised and enabled the mine to increase its pumping throughput by
100 000 dry tons while simultaneously realising significant energy savings. An independent
study was conducted after the initial installation which concluded that
Mogalakwena convert all its mill discharge pumps to MCR 450 pumps to maximise
pump performance and reduce energy consumption. The mine has consequently
installed another three MCR 400 pumps in the secondary mill circuit, which are running
well. After 3 000 hours
in operation, the Warman MCR 450 pump was examined to evaluate the wear rate of
the hydraulic components which Weir Minerals Africa estimates will save the
mine just over R550 000 annually on spares, and even more in power. Outside of
Africa, the MC pump delivers equally impressive results. In Spain at Cobre Las Cruces a Warman MCR250 pump
achieved between two and three times more wear life compared to a competitor
pump. In Australia at
Evolution Mining a Warman MCR150 achieved five times more wear life compared to
a competitor pump and at Kanmantoo a Warman MCR 250 achieved between three and
five times the wear life when compared to older Warman technology. And in New Zealand
at Oceana Gold a Warman MCU250 doubled the wear life and reduced total cost of
ownership by 30% from the previous pump Research and
development continues to deliver product improvement Weir Minerals is
driven by innovation and research and development (R&D) teams all over the
world specialise in various pumping technologies. One of the
significant additions emerging from extensive R&D through its advanced
materials division is the imminent release of a new rubber designed to reduce wear. In line with its focus to incorporate automation technologies into its products, Warman pumps can now be enhanced with Synertrex IIoT technology which allows operators to closely monitor their pump’s operation, prevent problems and increase throughput. Koorts confirms that the company is looking to incorporate add-ons to the system which could include the ability to monitor wear detection inside the pump. “Ultimately – our products, research and development
are geared towards optimising process plant circuits in terms of uptime and
ease of use. This definitely applies to our MC pump range,” Koorts concludes.