MC Mining has signed an off-take agreement with ArcelorMittal South Africa to purchase hard coking coal that will be produced from Phase 1 of the Makhado coking coal project. The agreement reaffirms the
quality of Makhado’s HCC and follows the April 2019 announcement of an off-take
with one of the world’s largest producers and marketers of seaborne traded coal
for all the by-product thermal coal to be produced by Phase 1. Completion of these off-takes
satisfies a key requirement for the Makhado project’s economics and allows
funding discussions to gain further traction with construction anticipated to
commence in Q3, CY2019. South Africa has a very limited
production of high-quality metallurgical (coking) coal, resulting in ArcelorMittal
South Africa and other coke producers having to import hard coking coal (HCC)
for the manufacture of metallurgical coke, a key ingredient in the production
of steel. The key highlights of the agreement
are: The agreement is subject to
various conditions precedent, including: Phase 1 of the
Makhado project will result in the development of the west pit on the Daru and
Tanga farms with a nine-month construction period expected to commence in Q3,
CY2019 and will be followed by a one-month ramp-up. This phase
will generate approximately 3 Mtpa of run-of-mine coal that will undergo
preliminary processing at the mine, yielding an estimated 2 Mtpa of residual
coal. The residual
coal will be transported to the existing, modified Vele colliery for final
processing, producing approximately 0.54 Mtpa of HCC and 0.57 Mtpa of export
quality thermal coal that will be trucked to the Musina siding for dispatching
to customers. The
construction of Phase 2 in circa CY2022 will include the development of
the east and central pits on the recently acquired Lukin and Salaita properties
and is expected to produce some 4 Mtpa of ROM coal. This will
yield approximately 0.8 Mtpa of HCC and between 0.9 Mtpa and 1 Mtpa of export
quality thermal coal. MC Mining has
secured an initial three-year off-take for a minimum of 0.4 Mtpa of Phase 2 HCC
with Huadong Coal Trading Center Co, Ltd, a Chinese state-owned enterprise.
HDCTC has logistics and bulk commodity interests and traded in excess of 5 Mt
of iron ore and coal during the past two years which necessities that circa 50%
of the Phase 2 HCC is also subject to off-take agreements. David Brown,
CEO comments: “The signing of the Phase 1 HCC off-take agreement with AMSA is a massively positive step for Makhado. MC Mining is now positioned to become South Africa’s pre-eminent producer of high-grade metallurgical coal and the Makhado coking coal will partially replace coking coal currently imported.”