Now that the elections are over, it’s time for government - and every person in South Africa, in fact - to consider how to help the nation recover from its past woes and once again pursue progress and development. The answer, says Christopher Palm, Chief Risk Advisor at the Institute of Risk Management South Africa, is right in front of us. Every system must maintain an upward trend in development to survive. This is true whether discussing a business, national government, the electrical infrastructure, the national economy, or the global environment. If it doesn’t, the inevitable shocks and stresses it faces in its operating
environment can lead to a long-term downturn in development, ultimately
resulting in the demise of the system itself. “To protect its progress and therefore its existence, each system must
acquire the resilience to repel or recover from external threats,” says Palm. What is resilience? Technically, resilience is the rapidity with which a system can bounce back from sudden shock or sustained stresses to resume progressing its development at its normal pace. Practically, it means striving to create sustainable development in modern
macroeconomic and microeconomic environments marked by change, risk and
uncertainty. However, research indicates that any system that effectively manages risk is
likely to become more resilient. “In fact, risk management can be considered successful only to the degree it
results in resilience,” says Palm. Building resilience According to Palm, resilience starts with a mindset that is organised around risk management. That mindset, he asserts, is based on the realisation that, as maintainers
of a system, we can either react to each crisis individually without actually
preventing it from progressively eroding development. Or we can anticipate probable threats and implement countermeasures to
minimize their impact ahead of time, and so conserve developmental gains. “Unfortunately, sustained exposure to system shocks and stresses can cause
us to accept its degraded performance as the new normal,” warns Palm. “So we first need to foster an uncompromising mental resilience that drives
us to return the system rapidly to its former best standard.” When all system maintainers are of the same mind, adhering to accepted
behaviours and values, a culture of resilience is created that ensures a high
level of development progress is achieved. But how does one nurture a resilient mindset? The resilient risk manager Both systemic and mental resilience are achieved by training members of the system in risk management to a professional level. Organisations who maintain the development of a system need highly qualified
people who will implement the right policies and processes. Such qualifications will help it bolster resilience by building a robust risk
management function, establishing comprehensive business continuity plans and
disaster management plans, gaining the ability to correctly test the
effectiveness of those plans, expanding its situational awareness through
scenario planning and strategic reviews, and, finally, aligning its business
processes to its risk management strategy. In essence, qualified risk practitioners are credible advisors who have the
capabilities to protect system development and influence other members to
strive for that purpose. “Once that self-organising culture is established,” says Palm, “we can not
only preserve the progress of the system’s development, but also capitalize on
future opportunities that would otherwise have been missed to make even faster
gains.” Palm encourages all organisations to ensure they have a well-trained risk
management team who are accredited members of a professional risk management
body.