DRC Mining Week (DMW) is an important and trustworthy platform where key players in the DRC mining sector can engage. This was the underlying message that prevailed at the opening ceremony of DRC Mining Week 2019. Featuring an august gathering of government officials and key mining individuals, the event marks the 15th anniversary of the largest mining event on the Copperbelt. Interestingly, the official opening coincided with the first anniversary of the new Mining Code in the DRC – a regulatory policy that has been met with mixed reaction among mining companies. Speaking on this milestone occasion, Spintelligent group
director Emmanuelle Nicholls stated: “We celebrate our 15th
anniversary with great pride. This event gives the necessary competencies for
the regional mining industry operate in a new age of metals.” Nicholls added that this year’s event far exceeds the organiser’s initial expectations. More than 3 500 delegates are expected to visit the three-day event in Lubumbashi. Furthermore, out of 200 exhibitors taking part in the event, 53% are international companies, boosted largely by five international pavilions – South Africa, Zimbabwe, Germany, United Kingdom and France. Meanwhile, Simon Tuma Waku, vice-president of the Chamber of Mines, DRC said that it was imperative that government and industry works within the new regulatory systems as partners to further mining operations in the country. “We need to work together to create infrastructure such as road and rail as well as address energy deficiencies. Without this collaboration, the industry won’t grow.” Waku added that the new mining regulations has created a new
tier of sub-contractors which has created an emerging middle-class which is
further helping to boost socio-economic conditions in the country. In addition to more than 200 exhibitors, DMW 2019 will
feature a comprehensive conference programme featuring industry experts
discussing and debating key issues related to mining in the DRC, including the
implications of the new Mining Code, updates on key projects in the country and
the push towards greener energy. Get all the updates on miningreview.com or follow us @miningreview on twitter.