With the onset of the dry season in the DRC construction of the new highway directly linking the Kamoa-Kakula Copper Project to the Kolwezi airport is progressing rapidly. This according to Robert Friedland and Yufeng “Miles” Sun, Co-Chairmen of multi-listed Ivanhoe Mines. The new 34-km, east-west road is approximately 25% complete and is expected to be fully operational by the end of 2019. When complete, the road will significantly improve
Kamoa-Kakula’s transportation corridor that is being used to bring in mining
equipment and construction materials, and that will be used to transport copper
concentrates. The new road also will improve the safety and
commuting time for employees between Kamoa-Kakula and Kolwezi and Lubumbashi,
as well as for mine visitors arriving at the Kolwezi airport. The new road will provide Kamoa-Kakula with a direct,
high-quality connection to the national road between Kolwezi and Lubumbashi,
and to a proposed, new south-bound provincial road that will connect to
Lumwana, Zambia and the Zambian rail system, via a planned new border crossing. This proposed heavy-haul route to Zambia would
significantly streamline truck freight to and from Kamoa-Kakula. The Kamoa-Kakula joint venture is constructing 19 km
of the new provincial road, while the Lualaba provincial government is
constructing the remaining 15 km under a toll concession agreement with a
DRC-based contracting company. The toll road also will include a new north-bound,
nine-kilometre section of road connecting all the mines on the western side of
Kolwezi to the new provincial road. A separate eight-kilometre, private mine access road
also is being constructed by the Kamoa-Kakula joint venture at Kamoa-Kakula to
safely by-pass the villages of Israel and Kaponda. This road also is expected to be fully operational by
the end of 2019 and will connect the Kakula Mine directly to the new 34 km
provincial road. The private mine road also will be available for transporting ore mined elsewhere on the Kamoa-Kakula Project to the Kakula concentrator for processing.