Date: 4-5 June 2019 Location: Johannesburg, South Africa Website The 5th edition of this increasingly popular event got off to a “bang” as it brought together stakeholders from the mining industry, finance community and government to engage in robust discussions affecting junior mining and exploration. This year we enjoyed such a strong showing from the Department of Mineral Resources & Energy - welcoming the Minister,Deputy Minister, DG and the CEO of the Council for Geoscience all in one room at the same time - that it was standing room only at the start of the first day. This strong showing of government support for the sector was highly appreciated by attendees, who this year came from many different countries including Australia, Belgium, Botswana, Congo, DRC, Lesotho,Madagascar, South Africa, Russia, Spain, Tanzania, Zimbabwe and others, surely indicating a strong revival of interest in the sector. We were delighted to welcome such a lively and engaging group of speakers and delegates who interrogated the best way of taking the industry forward and discussed many issues including the importance of “junior appropriate” regulation and incentivized capital given the high stakes of investing in junior mining and exploration. Challenging as it is to be a junior miner, Andries van Heerden showed how junior mining can be a truly exciting adventure, sharing with us the remarkable story and success of Afrimat. MC3, Eskom and the future of coal were hotly debated and Vuslat Bayoglu impressed us with the story of Menar’s incredible growth and acquisition strategy, passionately advocating the use of coal for South Africa’s energy needs. The Legends were, as always, a special highlight as they shared with us their insights and experience that have spanned many years. We were honoured to welcome renowned industry veterans Dr Mike de Wit and Alan Smith, who provided us with fascinating insights into the history and future of diamond exploration and a highly personal journey through a lifetime of mining. These were just a few of the highlights in a programme that was populated with many relevant inputs, including a debate about funding models, the outlook for commodities and battery metals in particular, fascinating company presentations and some good clean fun in the form of Myth busters. We sincerely hope you enjoyed the experience as much as we did and got a lot of value out of it. Do let us know if you have any feedback or comments you’d like to make. Hundreds of images were taken at the event and these will be available on the website under the gallery tab before long. The outstanding media coverage we received is also available through the website and more will be added as it is made available to us. We’ll be back in July for our brand new Coal Industry Day on 24 July (www.coalindaba.com) and for the Joburg Indaba later in the year on 2 & 3 October at The Inanda Club, Johannesburg. For more info, visit: www.joburgindaba.com.