The unveiling of the Mineral Resources and Energy Ministry in South Africa has weak policy will lead to energy poverty and mining disinvestment. In this op-ed Ted Blom explores what led to this dilemma and what the newly  formed Mineral Resources and Energy Ministry needs to succeed. With the advent of the 21st Century, many
countries have developed Millennium goals – most of which include massive jobs
growth to stem the tide of growing unemployment. This is indeed the case in most African countries. However, most of 
the African Governments have a poor track record of delivery to their 
stakeholders – including the ANC government in South Africa. The advent of the people’s government The problem can perhaps in many instances be traced back to young governments with a dire lack of experience and institutional capacity mostly found in mature democracies, where the public service is professionally run and institutionalised outside of party politics. Institutional capacity is a sine qua non for proper policy development and execution. Given the largely colonial heritage of most
African countries, their first steps after liberation or independence are to
trash all institutional memory and ideologies, and embark on a “People’s
Government”. These newfound independent states can
usually survive for anything between five and 25 years, running down previous
infrastructure developments until the pantry is empty. By then most institutional capacity and memory in respect of 
“know-how” are depleted or destroyed, leaving these countries destitute 
and dependant on outside assistance or handouts and bailouts, which in 
turn, enslave these countries again to new masters. For African countries to escape from this bondage, independent 
institutional capacity needs to be resuscitated or developed. Perhaps 
the African Union can develop such “Centres of Excellence” to assist and
 guide African governments to create sustainable policies that benefit 
their stakeholders. The power of proper policy development Most policy initiatives lack adequate analysis, which should detail all the variables identified in the delivery of sustainable and achievable outcomes. This is often rushed by politicians just before pending elections, as a tool to boost promises to the electorate (and to ensure remaining in office). This mostly leads to poor policy
development and further deterioration in delivery outcomes. Proper policy development and planning should be tackled like a jigsaw puzzle. The picture will only be completed when the last piece is put in place, and there are no missing gaps in the puzzle. That would then serve as a template for developing strategies and execution plans that will deliver the envisaged picture. By the time the puzzle is completed,
hopefully, all the issues and attendant questions will have arisen and be
answered, ensuring that there is no vacuum in developing the policy. Only through proper policy development and
execution, can we grow our economies and much-needed jobs, anything less will
result in either corruption, wastage or failure to engender growth. A watchful eye on Mineral Resources and Energy MinistryIn South Africa, where over 90% of the electricity generated comes  from local coal mines, the combining of the Mining Ministry with the Energy Ministry makes logical sense, and will hopefully go a long way to  proper policy development and execution, something that has been  missing in South Africa since the 1998 White Paper was published. This neglect is mainly responsible for the
derelict energy situation South Africa is currently experiencing with incessant
blackouts, despite more than 50% paper reserve capacity, and spiralling
electricity tariffs that have become unaffordable, prematurely closing dozens
of businesses and causing unnecessary hardship. Let this be an example to the rest of the African states. Policy development is too important a topic to be left to politicians urgently in need of votes. Stakeholders all need to agitate for proper policy development after appropriate consultation to root future growth on solid foundations. The same holds for declining new mining activity in Africa. Ted Blom is a Partner at Mining & Energy Advisors, a consulting firm to major companies and governments on strategy formulation and implementation.