The development of the junior mining and emerging mining sectors is key to growing and sustaining the mining industry. This important sector within South Africa’s mining industry single-handedly generated R54.4 billion in revenue in 2018 and spent R55.5 billion, despite the challenging economic and commodity price environment. CHANTELLE KOTZE writes. The Junior and Emerging Miners’ Desk, an arm within the Minerals Council South Africa, aims to provide advice and support, and to act as a resource centre for smaller Minerals Council member companies by supporting junior and emerging mining through policy lobbying and providing advice. Its purpose is to also link junior and emerging miners to networks, providing mentorship and disseminating relevant policy information. This article first appeared in Mining Review
Africa Issue 5, 2019
Read
the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here Established in
2015, the Desk has been growing in numbers and now comprises 25 members (including
smaller producers as well as exploration and development companies), two mining
associations (the Clay Brick Association of South Africa and the South African
Diamond Producers Organisation) and also contracting companies – altogether
representing around 250 smaller companies. In recent
times, the Desk has also been actively supported by the Minerals Council, who
has taken a stronger stance on the importance of the project pipeline that
junior mining brings. According to
ASX and JSE-listed Orion Minerals CEO Errol Smart – the chairman of the MCSA’s
Emerging Miners Leadership Forum representing about 200 junior and emerging
miners on the council’ board – the global mining industry is driven by the
junior sector, which is innovative, developing new technologies and making
discoveries. “Without juniors, you lack the very important feedstock of new
projects.” This is what
has happened in the South African mining industry, Smart notes, adding that the
missing generation of juniors and explorers has caused the country’s mining
sector to wane without any new Greenfield discoveries being made. This has
meant that the South African industry now needs to play catch up if it plans to
reach the exploration levels of its global peers. By way of
example, in 2017, South Africa accounted for only 1% of total global
exploration expenditure. At the same time, Canada attracted 14% of global
exploration expenditure, and Australia 14%. Of this 1% expenditure in South
Africa, only 10% was on Greenfields exploration, which is the lifeblood of any
successful mining industry. This has led
to a weak Greenfields exploration pipeline and a limited pipeline of new mining
projects that may be developed – the absence of which is of concern for the
future sustainability of South Africa’s once thriving mining sector, according
to Grant Mitchell, who heads up the Junior and Emerging Miners’ Desk at the Minerals
Council. Moreover,
where South Africa has lagged behind is in the number of active and
contributing junior mining and exploration companies currently listed on the
JSE, which amounts to 10. In contrast, Canada has about 1 150 listed
juniors  and Australia has about 700
juniors on its board – with many of them exploring for projects on the African
continent. These
figures, according to Mitchell, are testament to the fact that South Africa’s
junior sector has historically not been sufficiently developed nor have any
venture capital incentives been developed either. One of the
projects being worked on by the Desk is the development of an incentive scheme
for the junior mining sector in South Africa. Currently in draft format, the
scheme document is being reviewed by law firm Fasken with the aim of creating a
formal document that can be taken to government as a motivation and starting
point to influence government to introduce tax incentives. Moreover, in
terms of funding, both the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa
and the Public Investment Corporation have indicated that they would like to
establish government-initiated funds for prospectors and developers – however
this could take up to two years, Mitchell states. While the
establishment of a government-led fund is an imperative, the need to enable
venture capital companies to invest in junior and emerging miners is crucial,
according to both Mitchell and Smart. “What we
need is an environment that actively encourages exploration and welcomes the
risk-takers and investors that have the vision to discover new deposits, big
and small and fund these during the riskiest stages of development,” adds
Mitchell. Another item
on the agenda at the Desk is the establishment of a programme within the Mining
Qualifications Authority specifically aimed at the junior and emerging mining sector. Mining Charter 3 offers some reprieve Smart, who believes that there should
be a special dispensation for junior miners, has welcomed the amendments made to
Mining Charter 3, which have in turn, made the mining industry for juniors less
encumbered. “Once a
poorly drafted, impractical and unworkable document, which required 51%
empowerment ownership of prospecting rights – arguably the riskiest segment in
the project life cycle – Mining Charter 3, as gazetted in December 2018, is a
substantial improvement on the previous version and has exempted the junior
sector from having to comply with some of the empowerment requirements owing to
cash and operating constraints,” says Smart. “The
amendments to Mining Charter 3 have now allowed willing black investors to
enter the fold and invest their money into owning a portion of the project and
in turn creating the much needed growth in the exploration sector,” says Smart. In addition,
Mitchell says that while the constraints on exploration in South Africa have
been an important area of focus for the Desk, and while we are pleased that
concessions have been made in the application of Mining Charter 3 for junior
miners and explorers, more still needs to be done than just the removal of
disincentives. In addition many of the members of the Desk are smaller
producers who find the current regulatory environment onerous. In closing,
both Mitchell and Smart noted that while many victories have been achieved
within the junior mining sector, it takes a whole suite of support to ensure
the formation of a successful junior sector including geological information,
tax incentives, access to money, technical skills and regulatory certainty.