“Making Nigeria an irresistible destination for global mining capital” The Director-General of the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency, Dr Garba Abdulrazaq, will present a “Geological Survey update: Progress report on new findings and available data” at the upcoming Nigeria Mining Week taking place from 14-16 October. An official ambassador for the event, Dr Abdulrazaq will also participate in several panel discussions during the event. The Abuja conference and exhibition is expected to
attract more than 1200 mining experts, 180+ mines and exploration companies,
40+ sponsors with more than 24 countries represented. The Mining Association of
Nigeria (MAN) has been an organising partner since the Nigeria Mining Week’s inception four
years ago, along with PwC and Spintelligent. “Nigeria seems to be getting it right now” “The most ambitious project the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency is currently handling,” Says Dr Abdulrazaq, “is the National Integrated Mineral Exploration Project (NIMEP), which is government’s rapid response to the dearth of investible geoscience data in the country. The National Integrated Mineral Project (NIMEP) is the first of its kind and it is envisaged that the exploration exercise is expected to generate targets that will attract investment into the sector, or the commodities considered.” He also states that:
“Mining business is a high-risk business; exploration activities are
essentially carried out to reduce the risk borne by the investing entities.
What the NIMEP project is seeking is to reduce the risk element along the
identified mineral corridors and attract investment. The preliminary project
activities have been presented in a few mining conferences and the reception so
far was great! The reception was like Nigeria seems to be getting it right now.
Naturally by removing the barriers to an object makes the object more
accessible. It is envisaged that there will be a spike in the number of
companies investing in the Nigerian mining sector.” The Director-General of the Nigerian Geological
Survey Agency says that several companies have shown interest at these
preliminary presentations and that more are coming. “Making Nigeria an irresistible destination” “Nigeria Mining Week is the foremost event that provides an opportunity for promoting solid minerals endowment in Nigeria”, says Dr Abdulrazaq, “I strongly recommend attendance by all stakeholders. It aims to attract mining investment and provides a platform for stakeholders to interact and discuss issues relating – but not limited - to the availability of credible geoscience data, mineral processing, fiscal/policy regime, and investment funding. It also allows for networking between the Juniors and Majors on investment portfolios available within the sector. This is to ultimately make Nigeria an irresistible destination for global mining capital.”  To read the full interview with Dr Abdulrazaq and other event ambassadors, speakers and sponsors, go to http://www.nigeriaminingweek.com/interviews.  Leading industry supplier Barron is returning as a gold sponsor while AG Vision, Kian Smith Trade Co, Meridian Drilling & Exploration Services and PW Nigeria Ltd are also already confirmed as silver sponsors. Nigeria Mining Week
dates and location:
14 October 2019: Pre-conference: Finance and investment day
15-16 October 2019: Opening Session, conference and exhibition Venue: NAF Conference Centre and Suites in Abuja, Nigeria  The event organiser Spintelligent is a well-known trade conference and expo organiser on the continent. The company has particular expertise and experience in mining, infrastructure development and energy; including long-running flagship shows such as Future Energy Nigeria in Lagos, DRC Mining Week in Lubumbashi, East & Central Africa Mining Summit in Kigali and African Utility Week in Cape Town.  Website: http://www.nigeriaminingweek.com/    Twitter: https://twitter.com/iPAD_Nigeria    LinkedIN: https://www.linkedin.com/company/nigeria-mining-week  Media contact: Senior communications manager: Annemarie Roodbol Telephone:  +27 21 700 3558 Email: annemarie.roodbol@spintelligent.com