The role of a filter press in recovering valuable saleable product makes it an important consideration for a mine operator, and just as important is the selection of the most appropriate pump for this application. As a mission-critical system in the mineral
concentration process, the filter press demands a carefully selected pump to
ensure optimal performance and uptime. According to Marnus Koorts, product manager
for slurry pumps at Weir Minerals Africa, the role of a filter press in recovering
valuable saleable product is an important consideration for a mine operator.
The high pressures associated with operating a filter press, however, often
lead the pump to underperform. “The operation of a filter press involves a
wide spectrum of pressure and flow conditions within each cycle,” Koorts says.
“This ranges from high-flow, low-pressure conditions when slurry is initially
being pumped into the press, to low-flow and high-pressure when full.” Learn more: There is scope for more water saving in tailings facilities He emphasises that it is not enough to simply
specify a pump for the average of this range of conditions. Rather, it is vital
to establish the minimum and maximum values on the spectrum, and to specify
accordingly. “Filter presses in the market can demand
pressures of up to 45 bar,” he says. “In many cases, therefore, the application
requires high-pressure pumps such as the Warman AHPP high pressure range. Where
lower pressure requirements are present, the newer technology of the Warman WBH
could be used as it is generally a more efficient pump with longer wear life of
spare parts.” Failure of the pump to deliver enough pressure
to the filter results in the solid-liquid separation process being inefficient.
The selection of the right size of pump is therefore an important starting
point in ensuring optimal operation. The next key aspect of the customer’s selection,
Koorts says, is the choice of sealing arrangement. This aspect of the pump can
often lead to issues in the plant, when valuable product is lost through
leakage. “An expeller seal is not usually recommended, as
the pressure it generates to seal the pump is generally not sufficient in a
filter press application,” he says. The stuffing box option can be used under
certain conditions. However, the pressure of the surface water needs to be higher
than the pressure inside the pump. This means that it would usually be suitable
on a low-pressure pump for a low-pressure filter press. Learn more: Revolutionary groundbreaking dewatering system “When the filter press requires a higher
pressure, then the plant will have to provide a water line with a higher
pressure to feed the gland, or it will not seal properly,” he says. The preferred sealing option is a mechanical
seal. While more costly, the mechanical seal can offer the customer substantial
savings by preventing product being lost and downtime being incurred. “While the benefits of a mechanical seal far
outweigh its cost, it must be properly installed by a specialist,” he warns.
“It is a unique piece of equipment and we see plenty that fail due to incorrect
installation.” A further consideration is the level of
corrosive aspects of trace elements in the slurry. This can lead to rapid
corrosion of mild steel pumps, and many applications require stainless steel
options. Comprehensive technical backup needs to
underpin each step in this process, emphasises Koorts. For Weir Minerals
Africa, this begins with its high quality local manufacturing process. This
integrated process includes foundries for casting components, through to local componentry
manufacture and assembly capability. “This quality control and capacity feeds into
our spares availability and service exchanges for refurbished pumps,” he says.
“The result is quick supply through our strategically located branch network
with 12 offices in South Africa and eight through the rest of Africa.” Learn more: About Weir Minerals Africa 