Multi-listed SEMAFO has reports that there was a pit wall failure at Mana in the Wona pit. No mining was underway in the area, and no-one was injured. The company has issued the following statement: A pit wall failure occurred on Friday, and our team has been working diligently on assessing the impact. The incident took place in the northern part of the Wona pit where there is no active mining. No-one was injured, and no equipment was damaged. Currently, we are mining in the southern part of Wona pit. However, under the 2019 mine plan, some 45,000 ounces were expected from the northern portion of the pit between late August and year-end. To mine securely and regain access to ore in Wona North, we will have to push back the pit wall and mine approximately 6 million tonnes of waste material. As a result, mining of ore in the northern part of the pit will be deferred until the first quarter of 2020. These 6 million tonnes were part of the life of mine plan in 2021 and therefore do not represent additional tonnes or cost. After evaluating multiple
scenarios to compensate for the ore from Wona North in 2019, we established
that there would be insufficient ore to feed the mill for approximately ten
weeks. We now expect to suspend the processing of ore at Mana between
mid-August and end of October. The mining plan for the
Siou pit remains unchanged:  Development of Siou open pit is ongoing with
ore expected in the fourth quarter; and development of Siou underground is
proceeding on time and on budget. In addition to ongoing
geotechnical assessment, we conduct yearly independent geotechnical reviews in
conjunction with Golder Associates that include pit slope parameters. Safety
will remain our top priority as we conduct a full analysis to ensure continued
stability of our mining operations. 2019 guidance We estimate the impact at Mana to be approximately 40,000 – 50,000 ounces of lower production than originally contemplated. Therefore, annual guidance at Mana has been revised to 130,000 – 140,000 from the original 170,000 – 190,000 ounces. There is no change to our Mana all-in sustaining cost (AISC) guidance. During the shutdown, mining costs of approximately $22 million for Siou and Wona will be capitalized in development and there will be a non-recurring charge of approximately $7 million mostly representing fixed costs for the period. Boungou guidance remains
unchanged at between 220,000 and 240,000 ounces of gold at an AISC of between
$470 and $510 per ounce. Full second-quarter results will be released tomorrow after market close. Production at Mana for the first half of the year totaled 77,500 ounces, in line with our budget. In the second half of the year, we estimate that Mana production will be split 25% / 75% between the third and fourth quarters. 