Now in its 4th edition, the country’s leading mining, industrial and power generation expo returns in September together with the recently launched A-OSH Expo Botswana. Taking place at the Gaborone Fairgrounds from 10-12 September, this will be an all-encompassing event showcasing the latest technologies, machinery, products and solutions related to mining, industrial and power generation, as well as all things associated with occupational health and safety. As
a forum for trading, networking, learning and product sourcing, the co-located
events will provide an excellent opportunity for local and international exhibitors,
industry associations, government officials and industry professionals to
connect over three days at one venue. Occupational health and safety (OSH) is taking on
increasing importance in the workplace and is an emerging market sector in
Botswana. There is a growing need for occupational health and safety training, as
well as the range of products and services that support this. “A-OSH Expo Botswana is an ideal vehicle to promote occupational health and
safety in Botswana,” says Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery portfolio director,
Charlene Hefer. “As organisers we have extensive experience in this sector having
organised eight occupational health and safety trade shows in South
Africa. This experience is further supported through our partnership with local
Botswana firm, TRM Group, who are forerunners in occupational health and safety
in Botswana.” Gorata
Manyaapelo, Managing Director of TRM Group, says she is excited
to be teaming up with Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery and is looking forward
to being a part of the “best Electra Mining Botswana Expo yet” and to give
TRM’s expertise and support to the new A-OSH Expo Botswana. "TRM Group has proved to be pioneers and leaders
in occupational health and safety, always at the helm of groundbreaking
initiatives for the Safety Health and Environment movement of Botswana,” says Manyaapelo. “This
event is a great platform to showcase the industry and latest trends in this
sector.” In
addition to new products and live demonstrations, a full programme of
free-to-attend seminars will also take place alongside the events. “The
seminars will provide an excellent learning opportunity for exhibitors and
visitors at the show,” explains Hefer. “Speakers will be addressing a variety
of topics pertinent to both industries, and will add value with their knowledge
and expertise.” Focusing on empowerment and the importance of fostering
women’s participation in industry, a segment of the seminar series will be aimed
at equipping women with the practical knowledge needed to aid their work within
the respective industries. It will include motivational and life journey
testimonials from established leading women in the industries concerned. Industry has been very supportive of both events and
prime exhibition space is being booked up fast. In addition, BBF Safety Group is
on board as a Gold sponsor, a company specialising in safety solutions for the
footwear industry. “With its local and international participants and
leading brands on show, Electra Mining Botswana and A-OSH Botswana Expo will be
of benefit to exhibitors
who want to expand their footprint in Botswana and also to visitors who want to
source the latest products and services, and to learn about new technologies
and solutions,” says Hefer. “But the benefits extend beyond the exhibitors and
visitors,” explains Hefer. “The positive impact of these events in Botswana is
that they will be contributing in the region of 8-million Pula to the national
economy, either directly or in-directly. This is through venue expenses,
expenditure on products and services, advertising and promotion, logistics,
travel, accommodation, meals and drinks, the spend of exhibitors on exhibiting,
and the additional local spend of visitors and exhibitors whilst at the trade
show. The exhibition also contributes to part-time job creation during the show
and add-on tourism for those visiting Botswana.” Electra
Mining Botswana is endorsed by the Botswana Chamber of Mines, the Botswana
Institution of Engineers (BIE), and the South African Capital Equipment Export
Council (SACEEC). For further information,
contact: Leigh
Miller Marketing
Manager, Electra Mining Botswana & A-OSH Expo Botswana Tel:
+27 010 003 3060 | Email: leighm@specialised.com Gorata
Manyaapelo Managing
Director, TRM Group Mobile:
(+267) 72908575 | Email: manyaapelo@trmgroup.co.bw Charlene
Hefer Portfolio
Director: Mining and Industrial, Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery Tel:
+27 (0) 10 003 3039 | Email: charleneh@specialised.com