ASX-listed Mali Lithium’s exploitation permit application for its 100%-owned Goulamina lithium project is now with the office of the Prime Minister for sign off, constituting the final stage in the approval process. Mali
– This follows receipt of the environmental permit for Goulamina from the
Malian Government in March 2019. On Friday, 19 July
2019, the Director of the La Direction Nationale de la Géologie et des Mines
(DNGM), accompanied by the Divisional Managers for Mines and Mining
Environment, and also the local regional representative of the DNGM, undertook
a site visit to Torakoro, as part of the exploitation permit approval process. At the
conclusion of the visit the Government officials expressed their satisfaction
with the site and project and passed their findings to the Minister of Mines
and Petroleum who subsequently validated the application and transmitted it to
the Prime Minister’s Office for final approvals. “After hosting a very successful site visit by the DNGM, the Mali Lithium team are delighted that the exploitation permit application has now progressed to the final stage of approvals,” says Mali Lithium MD Chris Evans, who added that the company looks forward to this final, crucial approval being in place so that it can continue with the development of its world class Lithium deposit.” In July, the company appointed Lycopodium Minerals to complete the definitive feasibility study (DFS) at Goulamina, and has also signed a Letter of Intent with Changsha/Minmetals Corporation of China to discuss possibilities in EPC, offtake and funding for the project.  World-class lithium deposit The Goulamina lithium project comprises a
land holding of 100 km2 covering highly prospective hard rock
lithium pegmatites in the Bougouni Region of southern Mali. Reverse circulation and diamond drilling has
identified a number of sub-parallel spodumene-bearing pegmatites named Main,
West, Sangar and Danaya (formerly separated into Danaya and Yando), which host
the current mineral resource. Importantly, none of the pegmatites have been
closed off at depth or along strike. Auger drilling shows that the Danaya
pegmatites extend over a 2.6 km strike length, whereas only 1.6 km of strike
has been drill-tested to date. There is a high probability that additional drilling will result in an expansion of the existing mineral resource and further enhance the already attractive economics of the Goulamina project. 