Avesoro Resources has received a non-binding expression of interest from its controlling shareholder, AJL, to acquire all shares of the company not already owned by AJL. Avesoro Resources is in receipt of a non-binding expression of interest from Avesoro Jersey (AJL) to acquire all shares of the company that it does not already own at a price of £1 per share. AJL
currently holds approximately 72.9% of the Avesoro’s common shares. AJL’s
proposal is supported by holders of an additional 12.9% of the common shares Avesoro has also provided an update on operations at its Youga Gold Mine in Burkina Faso, and New Liberty Gold Mine in Liberia and the company’s broader financial condition and financing requirements. Read more about mining in West Africa Youga Avesoro
has restarted the mill and mining operations at Youga. However,
following a more detailed assessment of the damage incurred to property during
the incident it has now been confirmed that several haul trucks, excavators and
auxiliary equipment within the Heavy Mining Equipment (HME) fleet were
vandalised beyond repair. Therefore,
the mining fleet capacity has been substantially reduced in the short term. Fortunately,
no damage was sustained to the process plant or its associated facilities with
the mining equipment being the focus of the incident. As
previously announced, Orkun Group Sarl, the company’s mining contractor has
begun to ship additional HME comprising five excavators, 15 haul trucks and
auxiliary equipment to Youga, which is expected to alleviate the situation to
some extent. However, as announced on June 10, 2019, the Company has experienced significant ore dilution at the Gassore pit at Youga, and following recent events, Avesoro is currently assessing the longer-term viability of ongoing mining operations at Youga and will make a further announcement in this regard in due course. Read more about gold mining New Liberty It was
initially assessed that the heavy rain at New Liberty and resultant flooding of
the main pit would result in ore mining being suspended for a period of ten
days to allow adequate dewatering of the main pit. As a
result of further substantial rainfall and a reassessment of the situation, it
is now anticipated that there could be no access to ore until early September
depending on the amount of rainfall in the meantime. The
mining fleet is continuing to focus on waste stripping operations during this
time. Additionally, due to limited mill stockpiles, it is expected that gold shipments in August will be less than 1,000 oz. 