Mining software solutions provider MICROMINE is reminding mining companies to update their software to avoid potential cyber security breaches, data loss, system integration issues and operational downtime in 2019. While the ideal time
to do this is at the start of a new year, software updates should always be
prioritised. “Software updates are often overlooked as they are not as visible as other business processes, but the value of new software versions should not be underestimated in our current, highly digitalised mining environment,” says MICROMINE chief technology officer Ivan Zelina. “Investing in software, but not upgrading it, is like buying a new car but never getting it serviced – you simply won’t get the best out of it.” Potential risks and
issues of not upgrading software includes: Security All software and saved files become vulnerable to hacking and cybercrimes over time. Developers like MICROMINE proactively identify and address security threats, holes and bugs in new software versions. Compatibility Many different technology systems and platforms are used simultaneously, which means older versions of software can be slow or not configure properly when integrated with other, newer platforms. As new technology emerges it’s important that systems remain compatible. For example, Geobank Mobile integrates with the latest magnetic susceptibility devices, barcode readers, GPS, in-built and external cameras and more. Read: Is Africa ready for advanced mining technology? Inefficiency New features and enhancements exist in updated software to make it easier to use, faster and more effective. MICROMINE invests significantly into continuous research and development to ensure clients enjoy intuitive, feature-rich functionality and interpretive capabilities with each upgrade. Support Older software versions are often not supported as developers focus on improvements to enhance client outcomes. Users operating on outdated versions can waste time and energy on workarounds or lost time addressing issues. People By providing staff with the latest, innovative software tools, mining companies are more likely to attract and retain the best talent. It provides employees with the opportunity to learn and apply new techniques to problem solving whilst increasing their knowledge and skills “Staying up-to-date
with software releases allows users to reap the benefits of new features and
enhancements, which in-turn increases business productivity and efficiencies.” MICROMINE released new
versions of its Geobank and Micromine software solutions in 2018, which
delivered a range of new productivity tools features and data security
enhancements on both of the exploration and mine design and geological data
management solutions. To ensure clients can
easily manage software upgrades, MICROMINE offers an annual licence programme
for Geobank and Micromine. After paying a one-off
annual fee, clients receive unlimited software upgrades and patches, complementary
new version training and participation in software beta programmes and focus
groups. “With 14 global locations and a multi-lingual team, MICROMINE is equipped to support any country and any language. "We recognise all mining projects are different and our specialists are able to understand your project and provide a tailored support program to fit your requirements,” Zelina concludes. 