The installation of a custom-designed and manufactured a technologically advanced 6 000 t power pack for a coal mine in Lephalale will effectively control the belt feeder on conveyor to determine the amount of coal feeding into the line using proportional control. The Hytec South Africa designed and manufactured power pack was supplied
in a 3 m shipping container and is equipped with a pressurisation unit, control
electronics and automated lighting. The power pack was designed, manufactured
and commissioned at the Rexroth HUBB in Kempton Park. Independent knife gate control systems control the chute closing with a 350 kN force. Its pressurisation unit supplies clean filtered air at a positive pressure to the inside of the unit, ensuring dust is kept out, and all filters have a 100% back-up system to prevent downtime. Learn more: Exciting infrastructure developments in Lephalale “In using a shipping container, we are able to offer the customer
a ‘movable’ hydraulic room,’” says Hytec South Africa Projects Manager, Neil
Griezel. The 6 000 t power pack has an automated lighting system,
which is activated when the door is opened, and the inside of the container
acts as a secondary containment system in the event of hydraulic liquids being
expelled from the system. Sliding mounts for the electric motor and pump combinations were
fitted for ease of maintenance. The whole system consists of transducers and
switches, which continuously monitor system performance, and is equipped with
an integrated air blast cooler. The power pack was released following a rigorous Factory Acceptance Test, which was witnessed by the customer. The unit is currently being installed by Hytec South Africa’s professional installation team. On site at the Lephalale mine, the plug-and-play unit will be connected to all the hydraulic actuators, switched on and be ready for use. Through a tender process, Hytec South Africa was selected as the preferred supplier for this project, not only for competitive pricing, but also innovation and technological advances. Learn more: The future of coal “We were given specific mechanical parameters to ensure proper integration with the customer’s final design,” says Hytec South Africa Regional Systems Sales Engineer, Werner Voigt. 