Australia’s chief economist reported in June that the nation’s resource and energy exports are set to hit a new record of $285 billion in 2019–20, before falling back in 2020–21. The increase in earnings has been driven by a spike in iron ore prices and a surging gold sector. The June quarterly report said thermal coal was facing a tough climate, with prices deteriorating, and predicted that gold would replace thermal coal as Australia’s fourth largest export in 2019-20. It also warned about uncertainties caused by US-China trade tensions. Against such a backdrop there has never been a better time to hear from some of the world’s foremost mining experts as they discuss global and Australian opportunities and challenges. In Western Australia alone there are projects either under construction or committed to with a value of around $113 billion. Replacement iron ore mines, a planned LNG expansion and a buoyant gold sector are driving an increase in employment. At a time when the resources industry in Australia is enjoying a resurgence, more than 300 mining and resource experts will be in Melbourne this October for Australia’s largest mining event. Australians remain hungry for African opportunities says AAMEG Microsoft, BHP, Rio Tinto, Mitsui, Anglo American and South32 are just some of the companies that will discuss issues and trends including the opportunities that are attracting investors across the globe; leadership and trust in the digital age; critical considerations for doing business in 2020; what is affecting the global mining industry; avoiding digital disappointment; and getting the mix right in the mines of the future. FMG will discuss cyber threats and protecting data; the Minerals Council of Australia will deliver an outlook on battery metals; the skills shortage and skills of the future will be examined; and opportunities in Latin America and Africa will be explored. The International Mining and Resources Conference and Expo (IMARC) 2019 will cover the entire mining supply chain, from exploration, to investment, production and optimisation to new technologies and global opportunities. With this year including new focus areas on energy, the environment, workforce engagement as well as mine and plant optimisation. Around 7 000 mining and resource professionals will attend and participate in over 130 hours of content with five concurrent conferences and four workshops and masterclasses. With Victoria as a global leader in the delivery of product and service solutions for the Australian and overseas resources sectors, Melbourne is the ideal location for this global event that attracts attendance from over 100 nations. The Mining Equipment, Technology and Services (METS) industry is one of Australia’s largest export sectors, with Victoria taking a strong share of the sector’s exports with revenue at about $17 billion. Attendees will hear how Australia is leading the way in intelligent mining and improved production, with a case study on Australia-based Resolute Mining’s Syama mine in Mali - the world’s first fully automated mine. AAMEG collaborates in response to security situation in West Africa The latest mining discoveries, equipment, innovations and cutting-edge technologies will also be on display across the 1.2 ha expo floor with over 260 exhibiting companies. To continue to achieve such high export numbers, miners can’t do this alone. It is a collaborative approach and with participation from more than 400 mining companies and 35 international mining ministers, IMARC provides a unique opportunity for the thousands who will attend over three days, from October 29 to 31, to capitalise on the growth within the sector. 