ASX-listed Mako Gold has lodged two applications for exploration permits with the Ministry of Mines in Côte d’Ivoire covering a total area of 296 km2. Côte d’Ivoire – The
permit applications were strategically selected by Mako Gold to cover
significant greenstone-granite contact as these contacts present excellent
targets for shear-hosted orogenic gold deposits. The northern permit application has a greenstone-granite contact of 9 km, while the southern application has a greenstone-granite contact of 6 km. Read more: Mako Gold to earn up to 75% share in Napié Project in Côte d’Ivoire In addition both permits
are located on a regional fault – which provide the “plumbing” for gold bearing
fluids. In shear-hosted high-grade
gold deposits, gold is often remobilised from greenstones and over time,
deposited in the granites which are brittle and have a good network of open
spaces (faults). In addition, at the interface of the greenstones and granites,
the geochemistry changes, which typically causes precipitation of gold within
the granites. Because of the above, Mako Gold believes that the strategic location of the permit applications present excellent targets for high-grade orogenic shear-hosted gold deposits.  The northern and southern
permit applications are respectively located 15 km and 30 km from Barrick’s
Tongon mine processing plant. Both permits have good road access. Permit applications have recently
been granted within three to six months of applying and give the title holder
100% ownership of the permit. While it is not guaranteed that the permits will
be granted, Mako has no reason to believe that the Côte d’Ivoire Ministry of
Mines would not approve the applications and grant the permits. If granted, the permits
will more than double Mako’s footprint in Côte d’Ivoire to 520 km2. To Mako’s knowledge, no
previous work has been completed on these permits and the company plans to commence
exploration shortly after the granting of the permits. “We are pleased to
potentially be increasing our footprint in Côte d’Ivoire by applying for
quality permits in an area that we view as a favourable geological environment
for gold deposition,” says Mako Gold MD Peter Ledwidge.