To commemorate National Women’s Day, Epiroc hosted a lady-centric day on 08 August in aid of the Jes Foord Foundation Handbag Project. The Jes Foord Foundation was established in 2008 by rape survivor Jes Foord. It provides free trauma counselling for survivors of rape, molestation and sexual assault as well as to the family and loved ones affected by the trauma. Forming part of the Foundation, the Handbag Project collects donations of new or used handbags that contain items such as a facecloth, soap and new underwear. All these items can assist a rape victim during the initial reporting process at the police station. Read: Mining industry needs to do more to protect female employees The bag also includes a letter with a few words of encouragement to assist in restoring hope to the victim during the traumatic time. To date, the Handbag Project has packed and delivered over 51 000 rape comfort bags to survivors all over South Africa. “We want to make a difference in the world and this Women’s Day it was all about women supporting one another, which is why we chose to support this noteworthy project,” states Epiroc’s regional communications and academy manager, Kathryn Coetzer. A handbag will get you in On the day 25 enthusiastic female employees gathered
at the Epiroc office in Jet Park Johannesburg, armed with their unique entrance
fee of a used handbag, which would be filled with items by the company and
donated to the handbag project. The agenda kicked off with participants writing and
decorating comforting notes to accompany their bags and was followed by a
motivational talk on mind, body and soul self-care and positivity which was
presented by Reality Wellness Group. Following the thought-provoking talk, the
women let their creativity shine by creating paper flowers which went on to
form part of a beautiful flower wall. “The remarkable women in Epiroc play a key role in us maintaining our position as a pioneering industry leader, and it was great to see a different side of them as they eagerly participated in these stimulating activities,” says Kovashni Govender, academy training coordinator at Epiroc. "We are also extremely proud to have made a positive impact to the lives of women by contributing to the well-deserving Jes Foord Foundation Handbag Project,” concludes Coetzer. 