The Ebola epidemic has spread geographically to South Kivu and Goma in the DRC. To date there have been no instances near Bisie tin mine itself. Alphamin has strict Ebola control measures in place to enable resident health workers to identify and treat potential and real Ebola cases. Ebola is a virulent disease, however it can only be contracted if the virus makes direct contact with the mucous membrane or an open wound of an infected person. A person with Ebola is only infectious when they have a high fever. Alphamin has temperature monitoring stations at the entrance to all areas, messes, accommodation areas and other working areas. Watch our exclusive interview with former CEO Boris Kamstra Alphamin focused on keep AISC low as tin prices drop LME tin prices have fallen from over $20,000/t during the quarter ended March 2019 to current levels of around $16,000/t. This followed an apparent reduction in tin demand associated with challenges faced by the global electronics industry on the back of the US/China and Japan/South Korea trade wars. Alphamin Resources' focus continues on achieving full production at the lowest possible AISC, which should provide it with a reasonable operating margin based on current tin prices. The company expects contained tin production of between 4 000 tons and 4 500 tons for the six months ending December 2019 with run-of-mine grades averaging around 5% and overall plant recoveries in the range of 55% to 70%. The high run-of-mine tin grades planned for the remainder of the financial year is in accordance with the current mine schedule and is expected to taper off to around 4% during the year ending December 2020. Read more about the Bisie tin project Alphamin expects metallurgical recoveries to stabilise at 65-70% during Q4 2019 and is targeting 70-75% during 2020. Alphamin expects AISC per ton of contained tin to average between $10,000 and $12,000 for the six months ending December 2019. This is estimated basis a range of actual operating expenditure recorded during the last three months against a trend of volumes processed, grade and overall plant recoveries up to August 2019. 