The
Future of Mining EMEA conference takes place at 8 Northumberland Avenue in
London from 4-5 September with a strategic focused commercial and operational
agenda connecting the industry across Europe, Middle East and Africa. Speakers delivering on these topic areas include Daria
Goncharova, Chief Sustainability Officer, Polymetal
International PLC, Tom Bailey, Mine Manager – Tara Mines, Boliden, Terry Heymann, Chief Financial
Officer, World Gold Council, Jon
Wylie, Director Natural Resources, Proudfoot,
and Arjen de Bruin, Managing Director OIM Operations Solutions, OIM. With over 200 professionals
expected to be in attendance, it will cover a vast range of content spanning
right across the entire mining life cycle with technology, development and
sustainability at its core. The agenda focuses on areas of development and the
challenges ahead as mining begins to look beyond the now and plan for the
future. Key questions the conference will seek to answer include: Overcoming a
Lack of Trust: Securing Social License to Operate: What events drive society’s views of mining? Adapting to
Survive: How can Miners Integrate an Effective Digital Strategy into their
Operations? How do you manage digitisation when parts of a mining organisation are so
different? Stronger
Together: The Need for industry collaboration: Why do European
miners take a more open approach to collaboration than miners in other regions? From Minecraft
to Mineshaft: Engaging with the Next Generation of Talent How real is the risk of falling short in the quest for new industry
talent? Softening the
blow of Automation: How great an impact will
automation have on the existing mining workforce in EMEA? The conference is well supported by solution providers
including Proudfoot and OIM and for those who are interested in discussing new
ideas, concepts and strategies; the Future of Mining is a great opportunity for
those conversations and connections. This
brand new addition to the Future of Mining conference series builds upon the
successful Future
of Mining Americas (Second edition in Denver , 21-22 October 2019) and the
Future of Mining Australia (third edition taking  place in Sydney 23-24 March 2020). For more information visit https://emea.future-of-mining.com/ For all the latest conference updates, follow on LinkedIn
and Twitter using the hashtags #FutureofMining
and #FOMEMEA