One of the biggest dangers in open pit mines is potential slope failures which can now be more effectively prevented thanks to a new slope monitoring radar introduced to market. Although slope stability radars
have reduced this risk drastically in the last decade, these radars have
struggled to handle highly volatile atmospherics and fast-moving slopes. This
was due mainly to the technologies applied. Reutech Mining is launching the fastest scanning and most sophisticated slope monitoring radar in the industry, the MSRIV Esprit. The exceptional high scan speed ensures early detection of developing slope failures at mines, and enables accurate movement detections of fast-moving slopes rapidly changing atmospheric conditions. Learn more here about the successes achieved at Lesotho’s latest open pit mine Mothae The Esprit makes use of the latest
core radar technologies to increase the safety reaction time between first
warning and the possible event of a slope failure - thereby contributing to the
confidence of mining operations in a safer, monitored environment. “We are very proud of this advanced system,” says Reutech Mining executive Jan de Beer. “It has proven to minimise risk in daily operations, is critical to mining planning and increases productivity.” Neville Greyling, product manager,
explains: “With the MSRIV Esprit’s exceptional scan time of
less than two seconds for an entire area covering more than 22 million m² at an
operating range of 4 000 m, we ensure that virtually no noise is introduced.
Due to the fact that an entire area is measured instantaneously, we can provide
the truest, up-to-date slope data.’ Accuracy is of utmost importance
in the mining industry: coupling instantaneous 3D area measurements with the
fast scan speed ensures that, when doing critical monitoring, slope velocities
of up to 13 500 mm/h can be attained. In addition, during strategic monitoring, smaller movements are detected with greater accuracy. “This means predicting potential failures earlier and increasing warning times. It will result in overall safer open pit mines in areas prone to fast moving slopes and with rapidly changing atmospheric conditions,” adds Greyling. Learn more: Is your business leading the way in safety progression for mines, click here to showcase your innovations safety 