ASX-listed African lithium developer Prospect Resources has signed a memorandum of understanding with African Continental Minerals for the supply of power to the Arcadia lithium project in Zimbabwe.  Zimbabwe – The non-binding MOU with African Continental Minerals (ACM) provides Prospect Resources with power supply optionality for the project whilst also generating opportunities for additional services/projects, such as ACM’s coal bed methane gas-to-power project, to be developed. The MOU sets out the key terms for a subsequent formal offtake agreement
as the Arcadia lithium project is developed. These key terms include: ACM currently holds two Special Grants containing a total 245 000 ha and is awaiting the final approvals on a third asset. All assets are covered by existing power lines ranging from 11 kV to 33 kV. Drilling test and production wells will be placed within 4 to 8 km from power distribution lines. Watch a video update on the company’s Arcadia lithium project ACM possesses the vital technical industry experience to
deliver a purpose-built power solution for Prospect Resources. ACM’s parent entity, Jacqueline Resources, has established
a team of experienced experts on the ground in Zimbabwe headed by Troy Wilson,
a widely recognised coalbed methane (CBM) expert, with over 20 years’
experience across exploration through to production. Moreover, Jacqueline Resources’ team possess global
experience across de-gassings to energy projects in coal mining such as
converting CBM gas to power, as well as coal seam gas projects. Arcadia’s
primary source of power supply is from the national electricity grid that is
owned and operated by Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission & Distribution
Company (ZETDC),whose main power distribution lines runs adjacent to Arcadia,
some 15 km away. Prospect
Resources has secured Arcadia’s required supply at this interconnection but the
MoU provides Arcadia with optionality for power supply and competitive tension
for future supply agreements. Alternative secondary power
options In addition to the signing of the MoU, Prospect Resources continues to consider alternative secondary power supply options including purchase of power from the South African Power Pool, a power purchase agreement with the existing Cahora Bassa hydroelectric scheme or even the creation of a solar farm on site to ensure that it has the appropriate power solution with contingencies to support the development and operations of the Arcadia mine. Watch: Prospect Resources wins the Mining Indaba 2019 Investment Battlefield “The
development of Arcadia creates opportunities for other investment and projects
to either directly or indirectly benefit from the project’s operations,” says
MD Sam Hosack. “Prospect
is creating an ecosystem anchored by the Arcadia mine. This positive multiplier
effect will boost investment in Zimbabwe and deliver a raft of benefits to the
economy and the community,” he adds. The company looks forward to supporting additional power projects in the future.