The potential to reopen Barberton’s Lily and Barbrook gold mines is really looking positive now that owner Vantage Goldfields Ltd has accepted to sell 100% of its shares and claims in its South African subsidiary to a Level 1 BB-BEE company. In what Vantage Goldfields Ltd describes as a vote of confidence
for the distressed Barberton mining industry, Real Win Investments (RWI) will
become the new owners of the Lily and Barbrook mines. While the agreement was signed on 12 March 2019, RWI is now in a
position to move forward with the acquisition of Vantage Goldfields SA (VGSA). “We have been holding back on this announcement for many months
but we are now pleased to introduce the new investor which will take over the
operations. After many months of unfortunate delays, the business rescue process
can now be completed and the mines re-opened,” says CEO of VGSA Mike McChesney. Learn more: Lily’s other potential contender, what went wrong The transaction when implemented is likely to make a significant
impact on the Barberton mining community because RWI, a Level 1 BB-BEE company,
has obtained funding (subject to conditions), is experienced and has the expertise
to re-open the mines. Founding shareholders of the company are Pius Mokgokong and
Zandile Mdanda. RWI has had extensive engagements with the joint Business Rescue
Practitioners and will settle creditors in accordance with the adopted business
rescue plans. Commenting on their plans for the reopening of the Lily and
Barbrook mines, CEO Zandile Mdanda says, “RWI has been engaging with the
Business Rescue Practitioners over recent months regarding progress on the
acquisition of VGSA. Because of circumstances outside of our control we were
severely constrained in taking the transaction forward.” “We identified the Lily and Barbrook mines as an excellent
investment opportunity because the mines have amongst other things significant
ore reserves. RWI has the expertise required to revive one of South Africa’s
most historical and richest mining regions.” Proof of funding has been provided to the Business Rescue
Practitioners to enable the business rescue process to be concluded. RWI’s business model provides for extensive investment to restore
the operations and provide sustainability. “Our team has completed their preliminary due diligence and are
satisfied with the results thus far,” says Mdanda. A full due-diligence exercise will now be completed by independent
mining consultants. Once this is successfully completed, RWI will begin the
exciting process of re-opening these vitally important mines. Learn more: Remembering what happened at Lily 