An
all-encompassing event and a forum for trading,
networking, learning and product sourcing, Electra Mining Botswana will be taking
place at the Gaborone Fairgrounds from 10-12 September. A niche
trade show, it is designed to support business growth in Botswana by creating
an environment where business partnerships can develop and trade exchanges can
take place. Markets are becoming increasingly
competitive and companies are looking for efficiency improvements and cost
containment whilst also targeting new market segments as a priority to drive
improved profitability and better returns. Spending time at Electra Mining
Botswana will enable visitors to find products and solutions to address these
priorities. The mining industry
remains a key driver of economic activity in Botswana and is forecast to
sustain the economy further into the future. Playing an important role in this
is the recent announcement by De Beers that Botswana’s Debswana Diamond
Company, a joint venture between the Botswana government and De Beers, has
commenced the Cut-9 project to extend the life of Jwaneng Mine to 2035.
Debswana will invest approximately US$2 billion over the life of the project
underpinning the partnership’s commitment to the future of Botswana’s diamond
industry. Capital expenditure on mines helps to boost
business in other sectors such as construction, financial services and
transport. This diversification is reflected at Electra Mining Botswana through
its focus on mining, industrial, power generation and related industries. “All
stakeholders will benefit at Electra Mining Botswana,” says event director
Charlene Hefer. “Exhibitors meet new customers and generate sales leads;
visitors find products and services to increase output and profitability; and
the Botswana economy sees benefit as every 1 Pula spent on exhibiting brings in
7 Pula to the economy.” Visitors
to the show can expect to see leading local and international companies
showcasing the latest technologies, machinery, products and services related
to mining, industrial and power generation. It is ideally positioned for visitors to
learn about latest industry trends, speak to technical experts and to benefit from seeing the live
demonstrations of machinery in action. Taking
place alongside Electra Mining Botswana is the recently launched A-OSH Expo
Botswana, which will showcase occupational health and safety products and
services. Botswana has a growing need for further awareness around occupational
health and safety. “There are powerful economic reasons for
decreasing work-related accidents and ill health. Not only will associated
costs decrease, but efficient safety and health management promotes the
productivity of a business or organisation,” says Hefer. “A-OSH Expo Botswana is an
ideal vehicle to promote all aspects of occupational safety and health concerns
in the workplace. To this end, we have partnered with TRM Group, a wholly Botswana citizen owned company. TRM focuses
on promoting a safer, healthier and environmentally friendly workplace,
and increasing health and safety awareness in the country as a whole.” In
addition to engaging with technical experts at the stands and seeing new
products and live demonstrations, visitors will also benefit from a full
programme of free-to-attend seminars, taking place alongside the events. “The
seminars will provide an excellent learning opportunity for exhibitors and
visitors,” explains Hefer. “Speakers will be addressing a variety of topics
pertinent to all industries represented at the show, adding value by sharing
their knowledge and expertise.” Electra Mining Botswana is supported by the Botswana
government and leading industry organisations. “We are excited to have the
endorsement of the Ministry of Mineral Resources, Green Technology and Energy
Security, the Ministry of Investment, Trade and Industry, the Ministry of
Employment, Labour Productivity and Skills Development – which falls under the
Department of Occupational Health and Safety, the Botswana Chamber of Mines, the Botswana
Institution of Engineers, Business Botswana, and the Mining Equipment
Manufacturers of South Africa for the 2019 show,” says Hefer. “We have also
partnered with SACEEC – the South
African Capital Equipment Export Council. In addition, the BBF
Safety Group, Multotec,
and the Southern African–German Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, are sponsors of the show. We appreciate this support and look forward
to working together.” For additional information and online visitor registration, visit the
website www.electramining.co.bw For further information,
contact: Leigh
Miller | Marketing Manager, Electra Mining Botswana & A-OSH Expo Botswana Tel:
+27 010 003 3060 | Email: leighm@specialised.com Gorata
Manyaapelo | Managing Director, TRM Group Mobile:
(+267) 72908575 | Email: manyaapelo@trmgroup.co.bw Charlene
Hefer | Portfolio Director: Mining and Industrial, Specialised Exhibitions
Montgomery Tel:
+27 (0) 10 003 3039 | Email: charleneh@specialised.com