Ivanhoe Mines announced this week that drilling in the central part of the Kamoa North Bonanza Zone has returned another visually spectacular intersection of thick, ultra-high-grade copper mineralisation. Democratic Republic of Congo – While assays for the hole (DD1571) are pending, Niton (X-ray fluorescence or XRF) analysis on core from the hole returned copper grades of 18.0% over 18.86 m, at a 2% copper cut-off grade, beginning at a down-hole depth of 209 m. These Niton readings make this the highest-grade intersection ever drilled on the Kamoa-Kakula project. While Niton XRF readings are not the same as laboratory assays and are not an estimate of resource grades prepared in accordance with NI 43-101 reporting. However, based on more than 1 570 holes drilled to date at Kamoa-Kakula and the high degree of correlation between Niton XRF readings and assay results, Ivanhoe Mines is confident that these data readings are highly useful in confirming and shaping the next stage of the delineation drilling program. The new hole, DD1571, intersected the Bonanza Zone up dip and approximately 18 metres north of the discovery drill hole DD1450 (13.05% copper over 22.3 m (true thickness)), also at a 2% copper cut-off grade, that was drilled earlier this year. Read why Kakula is poised to be a copper giant New copper mineralisation style The Kamoa North Bonanza Zone represents a new style of copper mineralization at Kamoa-Kakula, where massive to semi-massive chalcopyrite, bornite and chalcocite have locally replaced pyrite in the Kamoa Pyritic Siltstone (KPS) – a pyritic siltstone that lies immediately above the basal diamictite unit that typically hosts the copper mineralisation at the project. Drilling has extended the strike length of the Bonanza Zone to at least 550 m, with a width of up to 60 m across strike. Six drill rigs are defining or extending the limits of the Kamoa North Bonanza Zone, which has an implied strike length of 2.72 km. The Kamoa-Kakula copper project is approximately 25 km west of the mining centre of Kolwezi. It is a joint venture between Ivanhoe Mines, Zijin Mining Group, Crystal River Global Limited and the DRC government. Ivanhoe Mines and Zijin Mining are co-funding development of the project. 