Having failed to secure finance to develop its Kipushi copper/cobalt project in the DRC, ASX-listed Cape Lambert Resources has put it on the back burner. Fortunately, on the back of increasing iron ore prices, the company has shifted focus to its Marampa project in Sierra Leone. When the Kipushi project was first introduced the bobalt price was approximately $US95 000/t but now trades at less than $40 000/t. Together with the challenging security situation and the yet to be controlled Ebola outbreak, it has made the DRC a very difficult jurisdiction for Cape Lambert to work in. RECAP: Cape Lambert's original plans for Kipushi Fortunately, the company owns the Marampa iron ore project
which has been on care and maintenance since April 2015, but could benefit
significantly from the recent increase in the iron ore price. Since the iron ore price lows of 2015, the price has risen
steadily and since January 2019 has been above $75/t (62% Fe, CFR China),
peaking at $117/t in July 2019. The quality and grade of Marampa ore means at extra 15% to
20% premium to these prices making for very robust project economics. The
relatively high iron price throughout 2019 has resulted in third parties showing
an interest in the Marampa project. It has a total JORC mineral resource of 680 Mt at 28.2% Fe
(above a cut-off grade of 15% Fe) covering four deposits (Gafal, Matukia,
Mafuri and Rotret). In 2013, the company completed an update of its 15 Mtpa scoping study which was based on exploiting the JORC compliant mineral resource and showed that 82% of the resource could be mined to produce high-grade hematite concentrate over a 15-year mine life. RECAP: The original plans for Marampa The scoping study Update1 considered a three-stage
development as follows: In 2014, Marampa was granted its mining licence and also achieved the issuance of its environmental licence.  In October 2014, the company announced that it had entered
into a funding agreement with Timis Mining Corporation, which had acquired the
assets of London Mining Marampa Mine Assets (Marampa mine) located on an
adjacent mining licence, which included an agreement for Timis Mining to have
exclusive rights to purchase and exploit, at their own expense, up to 1 Mt or
any other greater amount as defined by further drilling of oxidised ore from
Marampa. Timis Mining later fell into administration due to the
relatively low iron price. In 2017, Gerald Metals, in questionable
circumstances, obtained a new licence and undertook refurbishment work on the
process plant to recommence production with their first shipment of concentrate
in June 2019. On 3 August 2019, however, the Government of Sierra Leone
(GoSL) announced that it had cancelled the licence of Gerald Metals and
Shandong Iron and Steel (owner of the Tonkolili project and the Pepel rail and
port.) The GoSL has also expressed interest for Cape Lambert to
acquire the Marampa mine, with the view that it could be merged with the
Marampa project and use the Pepel port and rail to export its product. Given this, the company will refocus its efforts in pursuing
the interested third parties and others with the hope of progressing the
Marampa project to development. It has commenced the application process for reissuance of
the relevant licences. Commenting on this, Executive Chairman Tony Sage says: “We look forward to
working with interested parties and the GoSL to merge the Marampa project with
the Marampa mine and bring it to its long-awaited production.” “The company has the opportunity to partner with DGWA GmbH
to position its diversified mineral investment portfolio into the European
market, traditionally signal company focused with limited exposure to mineral based
investments.”