ASX-listed rare earths junior Peak Resources has executed a deal which will see it acquire 100% ownership in its Tanzania-based Ngualla project. Without this deal, the company risked reducing its ownership even further as it will have to offer up a 16% free carry stake to the government at some point in its future. CEO Rocky Smith confirms that a Binding Heads of Agreement
has now been executed with International Finance Corporation (IFC) (IFC BHoA). Signing of the IFC BHoA and the previously executed Binding
Heads of Agreement (Appian BHoA) with Appian Pinnacle HoldCo to roll up their
ownership interest in Mauritian registered company, Peak African Minerals (PAM)
into Peak, paves the way for Peak to move to 100% ownership of the Ngualla project. Peak Resources has as yet made no mention of the legislation
requirements pending by the Tanzania government – but the introduction of a 16%
free carry is stipulated in the new Mining Act – the conditions of which have
not been clarified by the government as yet. Peak Resources’ Chairman, Peter Meurer comments: “We thank IFC for their constructive and collaborative
approach leading to the signing of this agreement in a timely manner.” “We thank IFC for their support and input into the
advancement of the project and we welcome their continued support as we take
the next steps towards development of this globally significant project.” The company believes the proposed simplification of the PAM
ownership structure and streamlining of the governance procedures will ensure
that the interests of all shareholders will be aligned towards the development
of the project. The proposed simplified structure is intended to facilitate
the introduction of additional institutional investors in Peak Resources and
development partners to the project. This has already been demonstrated by the introduction of a
number of new institutional investors who participated in the company’s $4.8 million
capital raising completed on 8 August 2019. Completion of the transaction is conditional upon the
satisfaction of the following key outstanding conditions precedent: 