ABB has appointed Björn Rosengren as CEO, and will join the company from 1 February 2020. He brings with him a track record that will enable ABB to realise the next stage of its transformation. Rosengren will succeed current CEO, Peter Voser, in
this role on 1 March 2020 who will revert to his position at ABB solely as
Chairman of the Board. 60-year old Rosengren is a Swedish citizen and is a
highly experienced, international executive and leader of industrial
businesses. He has been the CEO of Sandvik, a high-tech global engineering
group, since 2015. During this time, he has overseen the successful
implementation of a decentralised structure and improved both the profitability
and financial strength of Sandvik. Prior to that, he was CEO of Wärtsilä Corporation,
which manufactures and services power sources and other equipment for the
marine and energy markets (2011-2015) and spent some 13 years (1998-2011) in a
variety of management roles at Atlas Copco, a world leading provider of
sustainable productivity solutions. “The Board is pleased that Björn Rosengren will be
taking the lead at ABB, bringing with him a proven track record of value
creation and exactly the managerial skills ABB needs during the next stage of
its transformation,” says Voser. “After undertaking a thorough search, the board is convinced that Björn Rosengren is the best candidate for the role. He understands how to establish successful decentralised organizations, empower people and demonstrates the culture of cooperation and high performance. Together with our strong management team, he will drive ABB’s strategy and deliver long-term value to all our stakeholders.” LEARN MORE: The role automation will play in driving digital mining or what ABB is doing to achieve a successful digital future “I am honored to have the opportunity to join ABB, a truly global technology leader, after I have completed my current commitments. At such a pivotal time for manufacturing industries, ABB must continue to best serve the needs of global customers with a unique technology and digital solutions portfolio to help enhance their productivity,” Rosengren concludes. 