ASX-listed Walkabout Resources has announced a
substantial upgrade to the ore reserve for its high grade Lindi Jumbo graphite
project. Tanzania - There is a high degree of confidence in the
reserve with only measured and indicated resources being used in the calculation. The potential for further upside in the resource endowment
is inherent in both the inferred resources and recent discovery to the south of
the pit. The upgraded ore reserve forms the basis of review and
improved outcomes for the Definitive Feasibility Study (DFS), which is due to
be released shortly. Executive Director, Allan Mulligan comments: “In the mining industry ‘grade is king’ and we have successfully delivered our objective to validate Lindi Jumbo as the highest-grade graphite project in our peer group.” “The super-high-grade mill feed means that Lindi Jumbo is an
incredibly robust project and positions the company to deliver the largest
margins in the industry. This gives Walkabout the ability to take advantage of
opportunities for increased market share as well as providing a meaningful
downside protection. Our goal continues to be the non-China producer-of-choice
for premium large-flake natural graphite.” “Importantly, we see the potential for further upside in
several areas, including the ability to produce and sell more graphite than
designed for and also expanding into not-yet utilised high-grade deposits to
the south and bringing those to account.” The additional resource tonnes has resulted in the modelling
of a completely new mine-pit design. The orebody outcrops on surface and is
well suited to conventional open pit mining, using excavators and trucks for
loading and hauling. The mine design considered only measured and indicated
mineral resources and the limit of the mine design was determined through pit optimisation
exercises. The mining operation at Lindi will be outsourced to a
contract mining company. Weathered ore and waste will be excavated using a hydraulic shovel and loaded
onto dump trucks for hauling out of the pit to the RoM stockpile or waste
dumps. Where the weathered material requires ripping by dozer
before excavating this will require a tracked dozer. Fresh ore and waste will
be drilled and blasted before being loaded and hauled in a similar manner. The waste rock will be used for the construction of the
outer wall of the tailings dam and during early Mining and site construction a
limited amount of waste will be used as construction material and fill. Ore will be transported to the RoM pad adjacent to the
processing plant in preparation for feeding to the plant. Ore will be placed in
specific low and high grade stock pile areas on the RoM pad. The ore will be fed into the primary crusher using a front
end loader. Blending of the ore and feeding of the crusher will be the
responsibility of the plant operations personnel. Waste and ore will be transported from the pit to the waste
dump, RoM pad or stockpile with dump trucks of 30 t capacity. Loading and hauling of waste will
be a 12-hour operation of 11 effective hours. Mining will only be carried out on day shift, to
allow effective grade control to be maintained.