Jubilee has executed a share purchase agreement for the acquisition of the Sable Zinc refinery in Kabwe Zambia. The refinery is situated immediately adjacent to the large stock piles of zinc, lead and vanadium that Jubilee has contracted from BMR Group PLC. In making this agreement the Board is also pleased to announce that they have secured a combination of debt and equity financing to fully complete the transaction and deliver the Jubilee’s Kabwe project. Jubilee CEO, Leon Coetzer, says: “I am delighted that, after months of test work, flowsheet design and refinery acquisition negotiations, we can announce the full implementation plan for the Kabwe base metal project. "My team and I are looking forward to managing an implementation programme to deliver to our shareholders this outstanding project on time and in budget. I am particularly pleased that we have been able to secure the support of large institutional funders in the equity placing which, is testimony to Jubilee’s Metals Recovery strategy and the quality of the Kabwe project” The combined secured funding fully funds the acquisition as well as the project capital required to implement the project to produce zinc, vanadium and lead from the surface material at Kabwe. The project targets an initial processing rate of 20 tonnes per hour producing a zinc concentrate and vanadium pentoxide before ramping up to a targeted 40 tonnes per hour producing zinc metal, vanadium pentoxide and a lead concentrate. The project targets to produce annually over 8 000 tonnes of zinc, 1 500 tonnes of vanadium and 15 000 tonnes of lead as it ramps up to full capacity over a 2-year period. Jubilee has already secured Zambian ministerial approval for the transaction. The Minister also waived previous conditions placed on the Kabwe mining licences. Jubilee executed the acquisition of Sable Zinc Kabwe in Zambia from two subsidiaries of Glencore for a consideration of US$12 million. The acquisition is funded through a combination of debt and equity. Jubilee secured a convertible loan note for US$8 million with ACAM LP and successfully completed a placing of 491,814,444 new Jubilee shares at an issue price of 2.25 pence per share to raise $14.50 million before expenses.