While the Australian government continues to struggle with its hand-in-glove relationship with thermal coal, Japan - Australia’s largest thermal coal export destination - is taking matters into its own hands and eyeing renewables. Japan’s Environment Minister Yoshiaki Harada released a policy initiative yesterday saying the Ministry will not sanction the construction of new thermal coal plant facilities nor upgrade existing coal plant facilities, in line with Japan's international pledges to tackle global warming with renewables. The Environment Ministry concludes that building new coal-fired power plants is not feasible given the carbon dioxide emissions, even from Japan’s most advanced plants, are twice that of thermal plants using natural gas and other renewables. The number of new corporate announcements across Japan in the last six
months strongly points to a strategic and rapid shift away from thermal coal
characterised by both coal-fired power project cancellations and Japan’s
influential trading houses exiting investment in thermal coal. “Electricity demand has been in long-term decline in Japan since 2010,” says
Tim Buckley, Director of Energy Finance Studies, IEEFA. “New coal-fired power plants make increasingly less sense given this
declining demand, coupled with ongoing investment in renewable energy and a
progressive restart of long-idled nuclear capacity post Fukushima.” Overnight, Japan’s Marubeni
Corporation, one of the world’s most significant developers of new coal
plants globally outside of China and India, further built on their recent coal
power plant exit commitment by targeting a doubling in renewable energy
revenues to ¥1,300bn (A$17bn) by 2023. Itochu
of Japan likewise announced their thermal coal investment exit in February 2019
and Sojitz
Corp followed suit in March 2019. Other major Japanese trading houses Mitsui
and Mitsubishi
have also turned away from thermal coal citing climate concerns. “Japan has some of the most influential financial institutions globally and
in this sector formal progress to-date has been far less material at a time
when peers
are rapidly divesting coal,” says Simon Nicholas, IEEFA Energy Finance
Analyst. “However there are signs that this is shifting, with partial coal exits
and/or restrictions announced by Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust Bank as well as Nippon
Life and Dai-Ichi
Life insurance. “Leading corporations are rapidly re-assessing their business models,
pivoting towards cessation of the development of all new coal-fired power
plants globally and accelerating investment in renewables. Japanese finance
will naturally follow.” Kansai Electric Power’s President Shigeki Iwane today announced
a renewable portfolio target of 6GW by 2030, relative to the token 11MW, as a
new medium-term management plan for 2019-2021.  Kansai – a leading
Japanese utility - currently operates 19.4GW of thermal power, 8.2GW of hydro
and 6.6GW of nuclear power across Japan. “The shift away from thermal coal is a global trend as countries and
companies increasingly build in measures to meet their Paris commitments,” says
Buckley. While Japan is currently Australia’s biggest export market for thermal coal
(45% in 2018), Japan’s pipeline of new coal-fired power plants has collapsed
64% in four years. The International Energy Agency models an overwhelming, permanent decline in
the seaborne thermal coal market under any scenario that gives at least a
reasonable chance of limiting global warming to 2 degrees or less. The Australian Office of Chief Economist's medium-term forecasts released
yesterday show declining revenues in the thermal coal industry, reflecting
IEEFA’s recent forecast for thermal coal exports out of NSW/Australia. “Coal is the biggest emitter of carbon emissions affecting global warming,”
says Buckley. “Exiting coal is a necessary step which the Australian government
is yet to realise. “With renewables now cheaper than coal in an ever-increasing number of
countries, corporations and investors are leading the capital momentum away
from coal.” “Australia must break-up its intimate relationship with thermal coal and
transition its communities towards cleaner cheaper renewables, or risk
remaining a global laggard left holding a massive exposure to stranded assets.”