De Beers Group has concluded the first phase of its Enterprise Development Project for Diamond Beneficiators pilot project. Five black South African-owned diamond and cutting companies graduating from their entrepreneurial development programme. The three-year
programme, facilitated by De Beers Sightholder Sales South Africa (DBSSSA) in
partnership with business incubation experts Raizcorp, included formal, curriculum-based
learning in parallel with mentorship in business strategy, finance, sales,
marketing and personal development. All
participating owners have subsequently demonstrated significant growth in the
knowledge and skills required to run successful businesses. Launched in 2016, the Enterprise Development Project for Diamond Beneficiators, aims to facilitate the growth and transformation of the diamond cutting and polishing industry in South Africa, with a holistic approach that seeks to optimise interventions in all aspects of the diamond pipeline from rough diamond purchasing, state of the art manufacturing to marketing and distribution. As part of the
programme, each participating company received an allocation of rough diamonds
from De Beers, in line with their market requirements and capacity. In addition,
the project has facilitated local and international market access for the five
companies and sponsored their participation at international trade shows,
including the Hong Kong Jewellery and Gem Fair and JCK Las Vegas. Through the
business acumen and entrepreneurship skills acquired from the De Beers
sponsored Raizcorp programme, the companies have seen significant turnover
growth and new jobs have been created. The project also proved ground breaking in its support for women in the diamond cutting and polishing industry, with two of the five participating companies being 100% women-owned, another 50% woman-owned. Peter Phemelo
Moeti, Senior Vice President of DBSSSA, says: “Diamond
cutting and polishing is a science, an art, a passion – the turning of an
ancient resource into something truly brilliant. “We believe
that this project gives South Africans the opportunity to play their full part
in unlocking the beauty and everlasting value from their most precious
resource. “I am very
proud of our project members and the passion they have for this
industry. They have become experts in telling good stories about diamond
beneficiation in our country. “Well done to
all of them for reaching this point in their journey.” Thoko Zwane,
project member and owner of Thoko’s Diamonds, says: “Having
completed the programme, I am a better person and business women. My team and I
are more efficient and effective in the way we manage ourselves and handle the
business. “I would like to thank De Beers and Raizcorp for giving me this opportunity.” Allon Raiz,
CEO of Raizcorp, says: “The De Beers
entrepreneurial development programme is very important for the diamond
industry and represents an authentic first step in transforming the industry. “I have been extremely impressed by De Beers’ high level of management and leadership involvement in the programme, and their care and attention to detail. The results of the programme have been excellent. “I believe
this is largely owing to the careful selection of the five participating
companies, as well as the design of the programme and the continuous input to
the programme design from De Beers. “Our
graduating entrepreneurs are totally committed and have excelled.” De Beers Group
is in the process of reviewing the project with the aim to securing strategic
partners to ensure the project takes its rightful place as an industry wide
project in South Africa.