The Minerals Council South Africa welcomes the establishment of an engineering task team to assess challenges at Eskom’s power stations. The
Minerals Council’s support for the task team follows several engagements
between key stakeholders aimed at addressing the challenges being faced by the
national power utility. On
15 February, Minister of Public Enterprises, Pravin Gordhan met with the
Minister of Mineral Resources, Gwede Mantashe, the CEO and senior executives of
the Minerals Council, and the CEOs of coal producing mining companies. The
engagement was aimed at addressing the issues currently being experienced, and
to set Eskom and the mining industry on a new trajectory. At
this meeting both the Minerals Council and the EIUG extended an offer to
establish an expert engineering task team to assist in addressing the challenges
faced by Eskom at its power stations. Minister
Pravin Gordhan accepted the offer and within a week, a list of 18 engineers assembled
by the Minerals Council and EIUG, was submitted to the Minister. In
addition, the Minister had also received nominations from the Engineering
Council of South Africa (ECSA) and the foremost South African engineering
universities. Subsequently,
a small coordinating team has been established under the leadership of Dr Tsakani
Mthombeni and Ian Morison, who has been seconded by Anglo American. The
group, which will also include industry and Minerals Council representatives,
will be responsible for planning and monitoring the process over the next few
months and the process will be co-owned by Minister Pravin Gordhan and the
chairman of Eskom, Jabu Mabuza. Over
the coming weeks, the task team will conduct technical reviews at some of
Eskom’s power stations with a view to identify problems and solutions. Interim reports of the findings and recommendations will be submitted to Eskom and the Department of Energy. Eskom will ultimately
be responsible for implementing the recommendations. Minerals
Council CEO, Roger Baxter notes: “This
is a tangible demonstration of leadership and a manifestation of real
commitment to the future welfare of our country and our industry at a time when
South Africa needs it most.”