The manufacturing sector in Southern Africa is primed to take a more active role in supplying goods to the continent and internationally. Characterised by a pioneering die-hard attitude, this sector has a solid reputation of developing products that can readily compete with the best the international market has to offer. Eric Bruggeman, CEO at the South African Capital Equipment Export Council (SACEEC), says that in the majority of cases there is simply no reason for the African market to source products outside the continent. “The innovation and quality of locally produced goods is exemplary and we believe that this message needs to be conveyed to those people responsible for the procurement of goods within organisations. "By partnering with Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery, we are providing a showcase for local manufacturers at an inaugural event.” The Local Southern African Manufacturing Expo (LME), which is endorsed by the Premier of Gauteng, David Makhura, will be held at the Expo Centre, Nasrec from 21 to 23 May 2019. The event, which will also include free-to-attend seminars hosted by SAIMechE, has attracted a wealth of local manufacturing intellectual property and expertise. The expo will also play host to an arei (Association of Representatives for the Electronics Industry) Pavilion and the Skills Development Zone hosted by the Artisan Training Institute (ATI). Arei represents the interests of the electronics industry in South Africa and aims to contribute to the creation of an environment which encourages a dynamic growth of the electronic manufacturing industry, at both component and system level, in South Africa. The Artisan Training Institute (ATI) will use the Skills Development Zone. ATI to display their technical skills in an interactive workshop setting. ATI is making a substantial difference in the technical training environment as it drives quality training throughout its operations. The organisers have signed an agreement with the Mandela Mining
Precinct wherein the Southern African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy
(SAIMM) will host the SA Mining Supply Chain Conference and Workshop alongside
the Local Southern African Manufacturing Expo on 22 and 23 May. “We are very excited about the potential of the Expo to ignite business ties between our local manufacturing sector and industry captains from Africa and abroad. It’s time for local manufacturers to share their offerings with the market. "This event will present the exhibitors with a captive target audience and allow industry procurement specialists to source high-quality locally-manufactured products,” says Charlene Hefer, portfolio director for Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery. Visitors will be spoilt for choice with a wide array
of products from reputable well-known local manufacturers taking centre stage. 