ASX-listed
Pensana Metals has appointed the international engineering company Wood Group
to execute a preliminary feasibility study for the expedited development of its
Longonjo NdPr rare earth project. Angola - The study will focus on the delivery of a low capital cost open pit mining operation and exporting flotation concentrates to customers in China via the recently upgraded Benguela rail line and the Atlantic deep‐water port of Lobito. Discussions
with potential financiers have commenced and it is expected that a financing
package will be finalised to coincide with the completion of the PFS (scheduled
for September 2019). The company
is of the view that given the work that has been completed to date and the
relative simplicity of the operation, following the completion of a favourable
PFS it should be possible to move immediately to Front End Engineering Design
(FEED) and Engineering Procurement Construction Management (EPCM). Pensana
Metals, COO Dave Hammond comments: “The
development concept is very straight forward. We are looking at a low capital
cost, shallow open pit and flotation operation producing a high‐grade concentrate
for export to China via the adjacent major rail and port infrastructure.” “Our
aim is to get into production and build our customer base at a time when EV and
wind turbine manufacturers are driving the increasing demand for NdPr magnets
for electric motors and Chinese rare earth processors are looking for additional
low‐cost feedstock.” Wood
Group previously undertook the scoping study for Longonjo and have an
experienced rare earth mining and development team. the
decision to expedite these development studies follows the completion of a large,
high grade mineral resource estimate for the company’s 84% owned project in
Angola. The
PFS base case for the initial development of Longonjo will consist of a shallow
open pit mine and flotation plant on site. The
development will leverage off the advantage of the modern rail and port infrastructure
already in place on the projects doorstep to ship a high‐grade flotation
concentrate to customers China. Initial
development studies will focus on the highest grade and quality portion of the mineral
resource estimate – the near surface weathered zone mineralisation. Pensana
has already demonstrated an effective processing route for this style of mineralisation
to produce a high‐grade mineral concentrate using flotation techniques. The
high‐grade weathered zone subset represents less than 10% of the total mineral
resource estimate and at a 0.65% NdPr lower cut off includes 22.9 Mt at 4.16%
REO including 0.86% NdPr containing 953 000 t REO including 197 000 t of
NdPr. Subsequent
studies will focus on an expansion of this initial operation to treat additional
NdPr mineralisation from this large deposit. The Chinese built US$1.8 billion Benguela rail line is located just 4 km from the project and runs directly to the Atlantic port at Lobito, linking the project to customers in China. The existing modern infrastructure on the doorstep is a major advantage for the practical and economic development of Longonjo. The
company is working with Chinese technical institutes to further optimise the
concentrate production process flowsheet. Working
with Wood, Pensana has defined technical work programmes to deliver the
Longonjo PFS by September 2019. Studies
include additional drilling, optimisation of the flotation process and comminution
test work, mining optimisation studies, a revised mineral resource estimate and
detailed cost studies based on engineering design work. A drilling
programme is now nearing completion on site and additional drilling, currently
in progress, will test the potential for southern extensions to the current mineral
resource estimate where high grade NdPr mineralisation remains open along the
southern margin of the carbonatite. A final
pit optimisation and mine design will be completed once the indicated mineral
resource estimate and PFS cost estimates become available. SRK
Consulting have been appointed to complete the revised mineral resource estimate,
which is scheduled for completion in June 2019.