The Debswana Diamond Company will commence the Cut-9 project to extend the life of Jwaneng Mine, one of the world’s most valuable diamond mines. The project will extend the life of Jwaneng Mine to 2035 and
is expected to yield an estimated 53 million carats of rough diamonds from 44 Mt
of treated material. Debswana will invest approximately US$2 billion over the life
of the project underpinning the partnership’s commitment to the future of
Botswana’s diamond industry. The shareholders of Debswana have approved the budget for
2019 so that the next phase of work can commence. At its peak, Cut-9 is expected to create more than 1,000
jobs, the majority of which will be held by Batswana citizens. A local contract has also been awarded by Debswana to Majwe
Mining, a joint venture between Bothakga Burrow Botswana and Thiess Botswana,
to provide diamond mining services. The value of the contract is US$1.2 billion. Bruce Cleaver, chairman of Debswana, says: “The extension of Jwaneng Mine secures Botswana’s rightful
place as a leading diamond producing nation for years to come. “With global consumer demand for diamonds reaching record
levels in 2018, the extension will enable us to continue to meet the needs of
our consumers all over the world. “We are deeply proud of the central role Jwaneng Mine has
played in Botswana’s remarkable development story and of the role this
investment will play in its future.” Debswana MD, Albert Milton says: “As we have throughout the
history of Jwaneng Mine we remain steadfast in ensuring that all projects are
delivered safely and to the benefit of the people of Botswana. “We are also committed to delivering on the citizen economic
empowerment (CEEP) goals and will focus on training our people, developing
their skills and harnessing technology to create further safety and efficiency
improvements.” The high level CEEP key performance indicators for the Cut-9
project include, but are not limited to: The establishment of an Apprentice and Artisan Training
Centre A Component Rebuild Centre, which is expected to mature into
a self-sustaining business within three years from the launch of the project Additional local business development initiatives Debswana was formed in 1969 and is a 50/50 partnership
between the Government of the Republic of Botswana and De Beers Group. Debswana is a significant contributor to Botswana’s economy
with more than 80% of its profits being returned to the people of Botswana. The Jwaneng Mine contributes approximately 70% of Debswana’s
total revenue. Diamonds from Debswana, in turn contribute approximately 50
per cent of public revenue, 33 per cent of GDP, and over 80% of foreign
earnings to Botswana.