JSE-listed Bauba Platinum reports that the new wash plant at its Moeijelijk chrome mine in Limpopo has been producing according to its planned throughput levels since January 2019, with spiral feed approximating 35 000 tonnes per month. Commenting
on Bauba’s results for the first six months of FY2019, CEO Nick van der Hoven
says the plant – the contract for which was awarded early in 2018 – enables the
company to upgrade Moeijelijk’s run-of-mine (ROM) chrome ore saleable product
into foundry, chemical and metallurgical grade concentrates for the Chinese
market. The
chrome market was weak during the six-month period, Van der Hoven says. “Until
the wash plant started production, Bauba was selling only 40 basis ROM,
realising a significantly lower value than its concentrate basket value, which
is heavily weighted towards speciality grade concentrates. “Based
on actual January and February 2019 sales, the current concentrate basket
generated a weighted average free on truck (FOT) price that is significantly
greater than the 40 basis ROM equivalent that was sold previously. “The
January 2019 basket price does not include foundry sales as we are still
gradually breaking into this market and foundry volumes are expected to improve
over time. Based on current wash plant production and positive assay results,
we are confident our target foundry sales will be achieved.” In
February 2019, Bauba entered into a foundry chrome commodity purchase contract
with a leading foundry chrome trader and secured the sale of a minimum quantity
of foundry grade chrome material over a four-month period. The
contract, together with Bauba’s existing offtake agreement, will enhance the
company’s future profit margins by increasing the value it receives from
premium speciality chrome ore concentrate sales, Van der Hoven says. “These
factors, in combination with a chrome market that has been improving and is
currently trending upwards, ought to contribute positively towards Bauba’s full
year results.” As
anticipated and highlighted to the market in its 2018 integrated annual report,
Bauba’s interim performance was adversely impacted by administrative delays by
the Department of Water and Sanitation in processing an amended water use
licence and by the Department of Mineral Resources in approving an amendment to
Moeijelijk’s environmental authorisation. This
resulted in an effective loss of two months of opencast production as the
opencast operation had to ramp back up to planned production levels, as well as
four months of concentrate sales due to the delayed commissioning of the wash
plant.