The growing contribution that digital technology is making to mining’s future will once again be under the spotlight at the Second Annual Wits Sibanye-Stillwater Digital Mining Laboratory (DigiMine) Seminar on 8 and 9 April 2019, hosted by the Wits Mining Institute at the University of the Witwatersrand. According
to Prof Fred Cawood, Director of the Wits Mining Institute:  “This is much
more than a seminar; it is experiencing 21st century mining and will be 
valuable to everyone interested in how digital mining is applied in the
underground environment.” Attendees
will gain first-hand insight into DigiMine's research agenda, research outcomes
and state of the art technological systems for the mining industry. “Keynote speakers will address how the Fourth Industrial Revolution is changing the mining landscape. The programme will also include presentations on the Wits and Sibanye-Stillwater DigiMine's research agenda – highlighting past and current research work. "There will be a site visit to the Digimine laboratory, and presentations by selected postgraduate research students. Technology partners will also present or demonstrate how their system solutions contribute to digitisation in mining and to DigiMine's research agenda.  The event also bears Wits Attendance or Competence Certification at NQF Level 7,” explained Cawood. Said Alex Fenn, Technology and Innovation Lead for Sibanye-Stillwater:  “We are extremely excited about the seminar as it offers us the opportunity to showcase the work that the DigiMine is doing as well as interesting and value adding technology from the DigiMine’s technology partners. "The seminar is an excellent forum for open collaboration between multiple stakeholders on key issues and opportunities in the digital mining space. We look forward to sharing our views on digital mining during the seminar as well as learning from research students and technology partners alike.” The
technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution are “truly disruptive”,
according to Klaus Schwab, founder and chairman of the World Economic Forum –
“upending existing ways of sensing, calculating, organizing, acting and
delivering.” Schwab
emphasises how these technologies represent entirely new ways of creating value
for organizations and citizens. “They will, over time, transform all systems we
take for granted today,” he writes in his book ‘Shaping the Future of the
Fourth Industrial Revolution: A Guide to Building a Better World’. No
less so in the world of mining, concurs Professor Fred Cawood. The seminar will take place at the Chamber of Mines Building at the University of the Witwatersrand, at a cost of R6, 000.00, including VAT. For more information, or to book your place, please contact Eunice Sediti on +27 (11) 717-1188 or email Eunice.Sediti@wits.ac.za.