South African fluorspar junior SepFluor is moving swiftly towards the start of operations at its first project, Nokeng in South Africa. While all the
regulatory approvals for Nokeng were in place by 2013, it was 2017 before the
R1.7 billion required to develop the project was raised – primarily amongst
international investors and lenders – and construction could begin. “It wasn’t easy; South Africa then was probably at its lowest ebb as a mining investment destination, fluorspar at the best of times is considered ‘obscure’ amongst investors, and the fluorspar market was at its lowest in six years," says CEO, Rob Wagner. But Wagner,
his team and the various contractors have made up for lost time – the mine is
expected to be operational by the end of April 2019, pretty much on schedule
and within budget. Hot commissioning
has begun, and various portions of the plant are already operational. The permanent
staff have been engaged and have undergone detailed training and coaching in
preparation for the start of plant operations. The market
timing is apposite, with the international fluorspar having turned a corner due
largely to production cutbacks by the world’s largest producer, China – a
consequence of tougher environmental regulations there. Nokeng’s first
year of production has already been sold with demand reaching unprecedented
levels. Nokeng will
mine a reserve of some 12.2 Mt of calcium fluoride (CaF2) from two
haematite-fluorspar orebodies – Outwash Fan and Plattekop – over 19 years, with
the likely prospect of extending the life of mine from a third orebody, Wilton,
partially explored at this point. The average grade of around 27% is high by international standards, says Wagner, ensuring sound economics and locked-in markets for Nokeng’s products – 180 000 tpa of acid grade fluorspar and 30 000 tpa of metallurgical grade fluorspar. The ease with
which the surface and near-surface orebodies can be opencast-mined and the
efficiency of Nokeng’s state-of-the-art plant are expected to put the new mine
in the bottom cost quartile of producers internationally. Ore production
by mining contractor Andru Mining from both the Outwash Fan and Plattekop
orebodies began in early 2018 and will ramp up to some 630 000 tpa once
the concentrator is fully commissioned. Design and
construction for the plant, offices and other infrastructure were contracted on
an EPC basis to a joint venture between Group Five and DRA Global. Completion is
expected by mid-April of 2019, with some commissioning already under way. The tailings storage facility has been designed to accommodate around 9 Mm3 of tailings over the life of the mine and is already complete and commissioned. Upgrading of
the D567 provincial road to accommodate the mine has been completed, and by December
2018 a new, 14 km, 132 KV overhead line from Eskom was delivering power to
site. Also, under
consideration for the future is a photovoltaic supply by third parties to
ensure security of supply. The mine’s
water requirement will be drawn from a wellfield with re-use of water optimised
to limit this requirement. People from
multiple communities around the mine have been prioritised both for the approximately
900 fixed-term jobs during construction and the 200 permanent jobs during operation. A key
component of Nokeng’s social and labour plan is a 2 400m² training centre,
built on site and equipped at a cost of R17 million. This will
provide National Qualifications Authority-accredited skills training for more
than 4 500 people over the life of mine – focused on mainly the youth in
roughly a 50:50 ratio between men and women, from identified communities in a
25 km radius of the mine – in fields such as boiler-making, welding, fitting,
electrical and community house-building. Nokeng covers
the training cost of R36 000 per student; which includes tuition, study materials,
transport, work clothing and personal protective equipment. Some of the
permanent employees for the mine operations were sourced from the first
graduates from this state-of-the-art training facility.