TSX/NYSE-listed Asanko Gold has appointed of Greg McCunn as CEO and director of Asanko with effect from April 1, 2019. Peter Breese, current President and CEO, will transition to the newly created position of President and COO reporting to McCunn and will remain a director of Asanko. McCunn,
who was previously Asanko’s CFO from 2011 to 2017, will lead the implementation
of the Asanko’s corporate strategy and the executive team from Asanko’s head office
in Vancouver. Breese will remain responsible for the operations of the Asanko’s flagship Asanko Gold mine in Ghana, maintain oversight on the large scale Esaase development program as well as overseeing the company’s technical team in its Johannesburg project office. Commenting
on the announcement, Peter Breese says: “I am very pleased to be working with
Greg again as we seek to grow and expand our company for the benefit of all our
stakeholders. “Greg’s
in-depth knowledge of the business, the country, our values and processes will
make this a seamless transition.” “I’m
excited to be reuniting with Peter and the leadership teams at Asanko” says McCunn,
incoming CEO. “When
we created Asanko in 2013, our vision was to use the Asanko Gold Mine as a
platform to build a mid-tier gold producer. With the operations performing well
and the balance sheet strong, the company is well positioned to take the next
important steps to execute this vision.” McCunn has over 25 years’ experience in finance, operations, project engineering, project construction and corporate development. Most recently he served as CEO of Alio Gold Inc, a junior gold mining company with operations in Mexico and Nevada. Prior to joining Alio Gold Inc he served for six years as the CFO forAsanko, during which time the company completed corporate transactions to combine the assets which currently make up the Asanko Gold Mine, financed the construction of the mine, executed the first phase of construction, completed commissioning and achieved commercial production. Prior
to his earlier time at Asanko, McCunn served as the CFO for Farallon Mining.
During his tenure with Farallon, the company financed, constructed and operated
the G-9 mine in Guerrero, Mexico. Farallon
was sold to Nyrstar in early 2011. McCunn’s background includes technical,
operational and corporate development roles with Teck Resources, Placer Dome
and junior mining companies in Canada and Australia. He
is a Professional Engineer and holds a Bachelor of Applied Science degree in
Metallurgical Engineering and a Master’s Degree in Business Administration.