Transnet is undertaking a number of projects aimed at expanding its freight logistics rail infrastructure network to meet customer demand. The company is also looking at accelerating capacity creation to ensure additional rail access for mining commodities going forward. CHANTELLE KOTZE writes. While
investing in its future, the state-owned enterprise is at the same time contending
with operational and governance challenges which it must confront if it hopes
to put this chapter behind it and take advantage of the willingness of the
country’s mining sector in doing business with it. Critical
in Transnet’s future success is fixing its foundation and building a solid
operating model on which to build, says acting group CEOTau Morwe. “Core to improving our operating model is improving our
operational discipline while
reducing our infrastructure and rolling stock maintenance backlog, fully
utilising already deployed technology and standardising train lengths and axle
loads,” he says. Speaking
at the Investing in African Mining Indaba
in February, Morwe explained that Transnet is currently working on a revised
“fit for purpose” operational model by focusing on efficiencies and a more redefined focus on customers. Transnet also believes
that the adoption of new technology such as automation, artificial
intelligence, robotics, internet of things, data analytic and predictive
operation will take its heavy haul service offering “from good to great.” With this technology deployment we will be able to
improve operational efficiency, customer experience, safety and energy
efficiency while also lower the logistics cost, says Morwe. Growing its heavy haul system In addition to the adoption of
technology as a means to grow its business, Transnet understands the need to
increase the capacity of its heavy haul system to satisfy current and future
customer demand. “Within
the next 10 -15 years, the South African heavy haul system has the potential to
grow by 111% – ­from 2 103 km to 4 438 km. The expansion projects will unlock the
Waterberg and Botswana coal reserves, and promote manganese export,” says Morwe. In
doing so, Transnet is underway with a number of capacity creation projects for
manganese and coal. Coal Transnet has embarked on a programme
to sustain and create rail infrastructure capacity to unlock the Waterberg, Limpopo
and Mpumalanga coal reserves for Eskom power stations, domestic and industrial
users and export markets. The
coal programme comprises the following key projects: Manganese The South
African manganese industry is experiencing strong export demand - currently in
excess of 17 Mtpa, and its productive capacity is forecast at over 24 Mtpa by
2024/25. Given the quality of reserves, South Africa’s
manganese industry is positioned to capitalise on the projected growth in the
manganese sector if the current logistics constraints are addressed. As a means to help customers capitalise on projected
growth, Transnet is creating 16 Mtpa of additional export capacity in line with
the growing industry demand and is also increasing rail capacity by 1 Mtpa by
running longer 375-wagon manganese trains (compared with current 312-wagon
trains) from Sishen to Saldanha. The first 375-wagon train is expected to run
in March 2019. Transnet is also in the feasibility stage of installing a third tippler in Saldanha. The strategic objective of this is the creation of replacement throughput capacity. Saldanha needs to maintain its current capacity level of 60 Mtpa and two functional tipplers are essential for this purpose. The capacity created from the implementation of a third tippler will enable the terminal to execute much-needed refurbishment of Tippler 2 (expected to be complete in 2020). Furthermore, this will mitigate the risk associated with the end of life of Tippler 1. All of the above will mitigate the potential adverse impact on operational performance. Over the past 10 years, there has been growth of just over 1% on the coal heavy haul line while the iron-ore heavy haul line has grown by just under 6% there. Despite this growth, there has been no growth from the general freight business (GFB), namely coal and magnetite, says Morwe, which has prompted Transnet to apply the already proven successes of the heavy haul industry in non-heavy haul operations, such as Transnet’s GFB operations as a means to unlock future growth. Addressing operational challenges Speaking to Morwe on the sidelines of
the Investing in African Mining Indaba conference,
he said that Transnet has spent over R42 billion on its rail infrastructure
over the past decade, but the condition of the network is worse now than it was
10 years ago. When
asked how Transnet will overcome this moving forward, Morwe said that it has
relooked its operation model and is implementing a new, fit-for-purpose
operating model aimed at ensuring Transnet’s sustainability and looking after
customer needs, as a key first step to ensure that it can overcome its
operational and financial difficulties. Relooking the skills sets of its
current employees, he said, is also a critical first step in addressing these
operational constraints and delivering on customer requirements – which all
currently require additional capacity. Transnet’s
chief customer officer, Mike Fanucchi said that the need for increased capacity
from customers was encouraging, as this has not always been the narrative. “Our biggest challenge at the moment is delivering on our customer’s weekly demands. This is an area of focus and an area of opportunity for us,” said Fanucchi.