In an exclusive interview, Dr Francis Gatare, CEO of the Rwanda Mining, Petroleum and Gas Board, talks to Mining Review Africa about the country’s focus on rapidly building its mining sector and what it hopes to achieve. It is a young institution but promises to put Rwanda on the mining map. The RMB was established in February 2017 with a mission to transform the mining sector because even though the mining sector in Rwanda has been going for over 80 years, it had not been given sufficient regulatory attention. The RMB was consequently established to do two things: One is to give Rwanda a thorough exploration strategy and carry out and obtain sufficient geological information that would help increase private investment in the mining sector. The second thing is to mobilise private investment so that we can change the profile of the mining sector, which until now has been predominantly done by small artisanal mining companies. For a long time we have not had sufficient training facilities for professionals in various disciplines of mining. Fortunately, training is included in the vision to transform the mining sector and in the last five years, we have established the first ever School of Geology and Mining at the National University of Rwanda. That is going well and our first cohort will graduate in 2019 in various disciplines. Yes, absolutely. We have many pipeline projects, some more advanced than others, but perhaps the more exciting ones that we are carrying out now are the value addition processing projects. We have a tin smelter that opened in 2018. We are very excited about having the first and only tin smelter in the Central East African region. We have another project, a refinery for tantalum which is also opening up in Rwanda. Then we have a project that is ongoing; namely to carry out detailed exploration of various minerals that have been identified through initial airborne surveys. This will continue to generate a lot of geological information that we can bring to the attention of private investors. We have also started to make discoveries with respect to lithium which are exciting. We have always known that amongst the three ‘T’s that are dominant in Rwanda – namely tin, tantalum and tungsten – there that are also traces of lithium, but we had never done sufficient exploration to verify this. We have recently completed extensive exploration targeting lithium and have made impressive discoveries with high grades of between 5% and 8% at reasonable depths, which is quite unusual and beneficial for mining purposes. Apart from the three ‘T’s we are also focusing on gold and gemstones. Rwanda’s mining vision is fully aligned with the Africa Mining Vision (AMV). In fact, when we were articulating Rwanda's national policy for mining, we built a very close working relationship with the AMC Institution, the AMDC (African Minerals Development Centre) and the African Union. We work closely together through our alignment of the formalised three pillars of the AMV: This makes it important to share geological information across the region. It's also very important for the country to share experiences and in turn start to see mineral resources as regional projects, especially when you begin to think about processing on a competitive level that would bring in economic returns. Mining requires three different building blocks; namely private companies that bring capital to invest in mining, the government which provides the regulatory environment and facilitation for businesses, and the third element is the regulatory framework for environmental management. We are planning to establish this platform in Rwanda to create dialogue between these different stakeholders for the development of a successful mining cluster. We think that Rwanda provides a compelling place for such interaction to take place. We are opening up our mining sector in a way that has not been done in the past, providing as much geological information as possible. We have recently revised our regulatory framework from policy to mining code and regulation – to not only make it competitive for companies to operate in but to also provide a platform that will make it easy for companies to comply with regulatory requirements. 