Walkabout Resources says it can have Africa’s highest reserve grade graphite mine into maiden production as early as 2020. This
period would coincide with a widely anticipated high demand globally for
premium flake graphite concentrate. Addressing the Paydirt 2019 Battery Minerals Conference in Perth, Walkabout Resources’ Executive Director, Trevor Benson, said the company’s Lindi jumbo graphite project in southern Tanzania is now ‘shovel ready’, buoyed by the highly positive and just released updated DFS. This
confirmed Lindi’s very high average Reserve grade of 17.9%, sufficient to
extend the operating life for the proposed mine by another four years out to 24
years. Walkabout is currently in the market to raise the project’s A$40 million of development capital – a capex figure Benson hailed as “being on the very low side for a graphite project of this calibre”. Lindi
already has initial concentrate offtake agreements with Chinese and German
customers and has concentrate batches for battery anode material currently
under tests with a large Japanese company. Benson said this potential opening was in detailed discussions and he was confident Binding Offtake Agreements would be finalised  in the next quarter  for around 75% of Lindi’s anode category product. “The new
DFS confirmed the quality of the Lindi graphite and we are now looking at an
increased "Life of Mine of 24 years producing 40,000 tpa of concentrate,” Benson said. “We have reduced the project’s execution risk by reducing capex to US$27.8 million,” Benson said, “while substantially upgrading Ore Reserve to 5.5 Mt @ 17.9% Total Graphitic Carbon (TGC) in what is a project with super grade and flake size distribution and a resource that has been lifted 41% from 29.6 Mt to 41.8 Mt.” Walkabout
has also intercepted ‘spectacular’ high grade mineralisation in trenches to the
immediate north of the proposed first mine site, including 54m at 22.4% TGC
from surface. “While we have reduced capital costs by a further six percent, our operational costs will remain very low at around US$347/tonne free on board into the port of Mtwara,” Benson said. Walkabout
plans to focus on Lindi’s shallower, high grade (>20% TGC) material in the mine’s
early open-pit years with the deepening of the pit taking place later in the
life of mine.