The IoT takes a big leap in the water treatment industry in 2019 with the launch of Veolia Water Technologies’ new AQUAVISTA digital platform in Africa. This
award-winning digital suite of standard and customisable water process
management applications provides a rich, flexible intelligence layer that
analyses, measures and benchmarks plant, process and equipment data for a whole
range of functions. These include
advanced analytics and diagnostics; condition monitoring; integrated asset management
and benchmarking; optimisation of preventative maintenance; ensuring regulatory
compliance; interactive troubleshooting; and more. This
information is supplied in real time and historically to authorised plant
personnel across Veolia’s secure, private and user-friendly cloud-based web
portal, which can be accessed remotely and on any device. “Through our
operations and maintenance services, Veolia adds value to our customers’ water
treatment systems by continuously seeking to optimise processes, asset
performance and reduce operational costs, including energy and chemical
consumption,” explains Chris Braybrooke, General Manager: Marketing. “The AQUAVISTA
suite delivers even further efficiency gains and plant management optimisation
with powerful, intuitive and customisable algorithms and dashboards.” AQUAVISTA
consists of three primary tools: Portal, Insight, Plant and Assist. The AQUAVISTA
Portal is the single point of reference for all information relating to a water
treatment system. This secure,
24/7 managed service simplifies and improves the convenience of plant
management. It is the basis for a wide range of functions, including: AQUAVISTA
Insight provides in-depth monitoring of key performance indicators, continuous
optimisation review, as well as global benchmarking relevant to your technologies
and processes. AQUAVISTA
Plant allows real-time optimisation of water treatment facilities through a
suite of intelligent software features. AQUAVISTA
Plant has been installed in over 100 water treatment works to date, where it
has helped plants improve biological capacity by 40%; reduce chemical
consumption by 100%; lower energy requirements for aeration by 25%; and enabled
overall cost savings of between 20 and 50%. AQUAVISTA
Assist is the online support and communications platform. One of the
most valuable features of this tool is the direct line of support plant
personnel have to a global network of experienced Veolia process experts for
real-time support of complex troubleshooting situations. It also allows
for greater knowledge sharing with operators across different sites; and
provides access to a complete range of online training materials, including
documents and videos on troubleshooting and maintenance. Addressing the
need to ensure the latest, most stringent cybersecurity measures have been
integrated into the system, all physical security (data acquisition), network
security (data transfer) and digital security (data aggregation / analysis) are
embedded in the core of the platform design. Smart modular plants Veolia Water
Technologies has begun integrating AQUAVISTA into its modular Water Techno
Packages, which will soon be a standard feature across its entire range of
products. As an Internet
of Things-ready solution, these plants can be activated on the AQUAVISTA Portal
on customer request. With
increasing pressure on our fresh water resources forcing our cities and
industries to use resources more efficiently and sustainably, and with the
day-to-day management of these technologies become more complex, AQUAVISTA is a
critical service platform that provides smarter management of your water
treatment systems and the best quality levels of treated water.