TSX/AIM-listed Avesoro Resources has released its audited annual Financial analysis for the quarter and full year ended December 31, 2018. Serhan Umurhan, CEO of Avesoro, comments: “2018 was a transformational year for Avesoro in which we achieved our 2018 annual production guidance of 220,458 oz of gold and increased group gold production by 179% compared with the prior year. "I am also pleased to see a strong increase in group revenues to US$282.2 million and robust operational cash flows of US$73.1 million for the year. "Our focus remains on producing profitable oz from our gold mines and delivering long term value by optimising the efficiency of our operations and increasing the company’s Mineral Reserves base and project pipeline. "Since the change of management at the company and New Liberty in July 2016, we have transformed a troubled, loss making mine by driving down costs and increasing production into a solid cash flow generating asset in 2018. "The Youga Gold Mine and Balogo satellite deposit, which we acquired in December 2017, have also made a substantial contribution to the group’s cash flow during the year. The cash flow from operations enabled us to undertake an exceptional exploration drilling campaign during 2018 which has already resulted in Mineral Reserves almost doubling at New Liberty to 1,355 koz and developing the underground mining plan for the deposit combined with first reserves from the Ndablama satellite deposit. "I look forward to delivering on the New Liberty life of mine extension plan during 2019 with the preparations for the transition towards underground operations at New Liberty now underway. We also expect to announce an increase in reserves at Youga during Q2 2019. "We are consistently delivering on our plan to build a multi-asset gold producer and management is committed to continuing to do so. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the members of our dedicated team for their contribution to the Company’s multiple successes in 2018.”