Endeavour Mining has announced that the first gold pour from the Ity CIL project in Côte d’Ivoire. It took place on 18 March 18, 2019, ahead of schedule and under-budget yielding approximately 1,800 oz of gold. Approximately 135,160 tonnes of ore have been
processed since ore was introduced into the CIL processing plant on February
20, 2019. Commercial production is expected to be declared
in early Q2-2019 with performance trial testing soon to commence, as the
crushing, milling and CIL circuits have quickly attained a stable nameplate
capacity of 4 Mtpa. Following the performance tests already conducted,
Endeavour launched optimization and de-bottlenecking work which is expected to
increase the plant nameplate capacity by 1 Mtpa to 5 Mtpa, at a minimal cost of
$10-15 million. The volumetric upsize work mainly comprises an
upgrade in pipes and pumps, and a second 50-tonne oxygen plant with no
additional mining fleet required. These plant upgrades are expected to be completed
during scheduled plant maintenance shut-downs throughout the next six months. Sébastien de Montessus, Endeavour President &
CEO, states: “As we approach commercial production, I would like to acknowledge
the hard work of our in-house construction team for successfully delivering the
Ity CIL Project ahead of schedule and under-budget, with an exceptional safety
record of over 8.5 million hours without a lost time injury. “This first gold pour and the remarkably quick
ramp-up period is a transformational event for Endeavour as the Ity CIL project
will quickly contribute to Group’s cash generation potential. Given its current 15-year mine life and strong
exploration potential, our ability to increase the plant size by 1 Mtpa to
5Mpta for minimal additional capex represents a very compelling investment and
is in line with our focus on capital allocation efficiency and return on
capital employed criteria. With this upgrade, Ity has the potential to produce
circa 300 koz of gold per annum at a low AISC.” The Ity CIL project capex spend is tracking
under-budget compared to the initial budget of $412 million. As construction is tracking ahead of schedule and
below budget, Endeavour decided to conduct additional works such as the
construction of a fuel farm, building exploration facilities, and an additional
$7 million of crop compensation and resettlement related to prospective
exploration grounds. Due to these additional works, and the $10-15
million required for the above-stated plant upgrade to 5 Mtpa, the total
project capex spend is expected to amount to circa $420 million. An $11 million exploration program totaling
approximately 71,000 m of drilling has been planned for 2019, with the aim of
delineating additional resources at the Le Plaque target, and testing other
targets such as Floleu, Daapleu SW and Samuel. As previously guided, Ity is expected to produce
160-200 koz in 2019 at an AISC of $525-590/oz, with the bottom end of
production guidance corresponding to the 4 Mtpa nameplate capacity while the
top-end factors in upsides such as an earlier start date, an expedited ramp-up
and the plant producing above its nameplate.