One of the most challenging relationships in the mining industry is the one that exists between mining companies and communities. It is indisputable that mining can leave a devastating footprint if not managed properly. Mantashe immovable on community engagement matters Given the
increased attention being given to the socio-economic and environmental impact
of mining, a lot of work, initiatives and money is now being deployed to
address and prevent the negative impacts of mining. However,
despite these efforts to improve oversight and ensure that the wealth of mining
is shared with surrounding communities, we have seen increasing conflict and
hostility towards mining enterprises in Africa. It is not unusual to find news on artisanal miners invading large scale mining concessions, communities refusing to accept new mining projects in their areas or protesting operating mines. In South Africa, this fight is embodied in the legal battle between the Xolobeni community in the Eastern Cape and the Government. The community has been opposing the establishment of a titanium mine in their area since 2007. Communities
protesting mining projects and entities are being witnessed in many other
mineral rich countries across the globe. The
common thread in these incidents of conflict is that communities affected and
co-existing with mining entities desire an active role in issues that have
traditionally been relegated to government policy and administration. The growing
pressure from communities signals the need to offer communities a solid seat at
the table and not to approach their participation as an appendage to the
discussions around mining projects. The
time is ripe to review the approach used in structuring community engagement protocols
when establishing new projects and during the existence of mining projects. While some
communities have access to resources that enable them to take their grievances
before the courts, many such affected communities in other mineral rich countries
do not have resources to make their concerns headlines. However,
the growing sense of anti mining sentiments in many countries is an indictment
on its own as to the growing frustration and alienation that exists. The
calls for a more influential role reflect the mistrust that mining communities harbor
towards being a dependant ward of government in the negotiation and
preservation of their rights in mining projects. The responsibility
of ensuring that adequate protective measures are provided for within the
framework of mining project arrangements rests with governments. In
addition, government holds the function of ensuring that mining entities comply
and adhere to the various laws regulating the operations of mining entities
during the life of the project and at closure. These two
obligations also exist within the context of a greater over-arching role that
government has towards spearheading national development initiatives,
constructing infrastructure, services, the provision of utilities and the stewardship
of driving sustainable development to its citizens. The efficient execution of these duties or lack of it has a significant impact on the relationship between mining entities and communities. Communities to benefit from mining through “social licences to mine” If a
government fails at its duty to spearhead national development initiatives,
provide basic infrastructure and improving the functionality and diversity of
rural sub-economies then the immediate result is that communities will transfer
these expectations onto mining entities. This
gives birth to impracticable expectations in respect of the benefits due to
them for hosting mining entities. An
additional failure to regulate mining entities efficiently also breeds
hostility against mining projects because when communities are left to bear the
cost of instituting self help and corrective measures from operational and
legislative violations by mining entities their natural reaction will be to prevent
mining projects in their jurisdictions with their best effort. It is
within this context that mineral rich governments have accept that their
performance and approach to their custodial and fiduciary duties of oversight
in the mining sector directly affects how the mining industry is perceived and
whether communities are willing to embrace mining projects. There
are three critical points of interaction that mineral rich governments must be particularly
mindful of when approaching the interests of communities affected by mining. That
is, at the negotiation of mining projects, during the life of the mine and at
mine closure. At project inception there is a need to re-evaluate the
strategies used to acquire free prior informed consent. As the
concept suggests, the consent of communities needs to be acquired prior to the
inception of the project, it has to be acquired through liberal methods devoid
of coercion and intimidation and the consent has to derive from a position of
knowledge and understanding of the salient issues arising from the industry,
project, the communities’ interests, rights and anticipated benefits. The
greatest problem with acquiring the consent of communities is that substantive
engagement efforts only start at the point when an investor had lodged an
application for mining rights or in other countries well after the investor has
been issued the license. This in
my view is quite late. All
communities that abide in mineral rich areas should be educated, trained and
given the platform to conceptualize and anticipate how they intend to approach
the future interaction well before commercial interest sprouts. The
discussion around the consequences, compromises and alignment of expectations
should happen when exploration and prospecting is being undertaken and well before
any investor registers commercial interest. Trying to cram information exchange when the license is about to be issued and when the investor is ready to establish the mine positions communities in a negative reactive stance and not in proactive positive standpoint. Mantashe announces independent survey in Xolobeni The
capacity of communities to effectively negotiate and communicate their
interests is also compromised by lack of adequate information and knowledge
regarding options, enforcement mechanisms and corresponding rights and
obligations of companies and government. Whilst
it is useful to have pressure groups and non governmental agencies educating
communities about these issues, it is time that governments take the reins of
educating and communicating more candidly with citizens about mineral wealth, it’s
potential to development, how the returns and wealth are distributed,
consequences of extraction, expectations, safeguards and the roles and duties
of players. This sort of interaction will positively shape how citizens view mining and let their voices influence policies. To expect communities to meaningfully conceptualize and communicate their rights and interests and compensatory alternatives without a wider appreciation of mechanics of the industry, its players and available options is a self defeating exercise and hinders constructive discussions that could be vital to realizing the full potential of possessing mineral wealth. The
other issue that usually affects the process of acquiring community consent is
the strategy utilized to acquire the consent. How we
organize the community to collect their views and the structures we utilize to
administer the process are as important as when we start the process. Whilst
the default is to use traditional leadership structures for consultation and
decision making, we should also reinforce these structures with innovative
initiatives that compensate for the blind spots inherent traditional systems
such as the limited influence and views of women and young adults. For
this reason, government should be able to enhance the effectiveness of
traditional structures with the incorporation of diverse and adaptable digital
data collection methods. The Columbia Center on Sustainable Investment (CCSI) has been promoting the use of digital technologies such as mobile phone surveys and census to enhance data collection and drive data driven policy making in mining impacted regions. Such
methods are gender and age neutral and can enhance the process of community
engagement. The
concept of suggestion/opinion boxes can even be provided for on digital
platforms thereby allowing community members to register their concerns or
suggestions anonymously and without fear or undue influence. When
paired with traditional consultative and decision-making structures, digital
solutions can improve the integrity, inclusiveness and independence of data
collection. It is also
detrimental to assume that the process of engagement should merely result in a
yes or no position. The greater part of the process should also be invested in structuring and delivering a tripartite working framework which can deal with issues and concerns arising from the project for the entire duration of the project’s life. Government
needs to pull its provincial and district structures to form a working
committee with companies and communities in every delimited mining locality. This
working group should have the power to pass enforceable resolutions and
activate remedial action to issues raised. Many
communities feel that once they have been relocated, compensated or have rendered
their consent they are abandoned by government structures and struggle to get
audience or action to their concerns. It is
very important for mineral rich governments to maintain dialogue and
interaction within a framework that can deliver and remedy solutions affecting
the community. Such a
forum should be a legislated structure mandated in all areas affected by
mining. It can play a significant role in diffusing the feeling of abandonment
and hostility from communities. Indigenous/rural
communities have a significant relationship with the land under their
possession and occupation. The land represents a source of livelihood and
embodies their cultural and spiritual centre. Whilst
these issues may seem emotive in the face of a potential billion-dollar revenue
project, they go to the heart of the communities’ context of identity. Therefore,
negotiating the disturbance of peaceful occupation of communal and indigenous
lands requires an understanding of how to navigate and offer solutions that
preserve, remedy and attempt to make up for the loss in a manner that is satisfactory
to the community. Australia
recently revoked the protection status of over 1385 ha of Wangan and Jagalingou
country in Queensland which is now earmarked for coal mining under the
multinational firm Adani. The
move has been met with great consternation by the indigenous tribes who use
part of the area as traditional ceremonial grounds. There
have been numerous protests since the project was first headlined in 2011 and
the recent move has only ignited fierce frustrations. It is not an easy feat to
find compromises to issues that violate the sanctity of identity and existence,
however it is not impossible to broker a position that can be acceptable to the
parties. Both parties
must be ready to offer compromises which include forfeiting and excluding part
of the targeted project reserves directly around the sensitive areas if this is
physically possible. Once
consent has been properly acquired the next point of interaction concerns the
administration and oversight of regulatory rules relating to mining operations. Governments need to invest more time, manpower, tools, money and effort into ensuring regulatory compliance. This also includes ensuring that regulatory standards in respect of passive environmental and social impacts are closely monitored throughout the project life and kept in check. The turn
of events in the Minetail West Rand mine closure matter is a good example of
how relaxed monitoring of regulatory issues can leave serious adverse effects
for communities who eventually bear the consequences of environmental
degradation, safety and health problems and ultimately remain with the
consequences of mining. The
enforcement of operational standards, environmental compliance and
environmental liability should be non-negotiable to mineral rich governments. Governments
should be ready to revoke mining rights and take all necessary measures to
recover enough funds for environmental liability and rehabilitation should a
mining entity keep violating its legislative and regulatory mandates. Once
governments show an unwavering efficiency on oversight and compliance issues this
will ultimately allay the fears that communities have regarding violations from
mining entities. How the
key parties in the mining sector approach the negotiation table with communities’
matters. Communities
are partners in the industry and the discussion regarding their interests needs
to go beyond allocating compensation to creating an opportunity for sustainable
development through government and corporate support. Community
engagement is not ancillary to the mining industry; it is the heart of the
industry because ultimately if it cannot positively impact, influence or
co-exist with those beside it, how can it then drive positive global social
impacts? Minerals
are an asset when exploitation, mineral development chains and wealth
distribution and relationships are effectively managed. Once mineral rich countries manage to balance the equation between mining and community interests correctly the attitude towards mining will change and the fruits of the industry will begin to drive broad based sustainable development. 