Over two thousand industry professionals and
decision-makers are expected to make their way from across Botswana to attend this
year’s Electra Mining Botswana and co-located A-OSH Expo Botswana. As the only exhibition
in Botswana that covers mining, industrial, power and occupational health and
safety, visitors will not only be looking out for the latest
products, technologies and related services at the show, but to also benefit
from the high value free to attend seminars being held alongside the event. Taking place at the Gaborone
Fairgrounds from 10-12 September, visitors will have the opportunity to engage
with local and international exhibitors, speak to technical experts on the stands, view new
products, watch live demonstrations and attend the seminars. “Seminar
speakers will be addressing a variety of topics pertinent to all industries
represented at the show, adding value by sharing their knowledge and expertise,”
says Charlene Hefer, Portfolio Director at Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery.
“We are delighted that the Botswana Chamber of Mines will also be hosting a
seminar series at the show focussing on Investment, Expansion Projects and
Employing the Youth.” “The
seminars will focus on mining as well as other industries within Botswana, new
technologies that will play an increasingly important role in industry, and
smarter occupational safety solutions,” explains Hefer. Latest
information on mining rights, mining licences and
large-scale mining will be presented by Botswana Chamber of Mines CEO Charles Siwawa. South African
Capital Equipment Export Council (SACEEC) CEO Eric Bruggeman will deliver a
presentation on the future of manufacturing in Africa and how SACEEC can assist
in exporting products. Leading
product specialists from Multotec will share global expertise on the topics of
water treatment and sampling, whilst the evolution
of hard rock crushing will be the topic presented by Thyssenkrupp’s product manager Demitri
Kokoroyanis. Other
topics include discussion around how the network management of power grids
enables mines to identify and resolve issues before they escalate into major
problems, insights into starting your own manufacturing business, the importance of the correct
selection and installation of cable entry devices within the mining environment,
and the way in which battery storage can bring more efficiency to your
mining business. Women
in Mining will also feature in the seminar presentations. With the overall theme of the show
being about safety, this is also a key focus in the seminar series. The SA-German Chamber of Commerce is
sponsoring this safety segment with presenters from the Mandela
Mining Precinct, the Minerals Council South Africa and other leading experts
from industry. Topics will cover smarter safety
solutions for mining that lead
to improved personnel safety, increased operational activities and better cost
efficiencies.  These solutions can range
from integrated intelligence through diagnostics, tracking and communications,
amongst others. Visitors will also have the opportunity
to speak to the Foundation for
Professional Development, an exhibitor at Electra Mining Botswana, to find out
more about their comprehensive curriculum of courses in management and professional
skills development, customised to the needs of students in sectors such as
management, health and education. As the largest provider of NEBOSH e-learning training
courses globally, SHEilds is excited to be exhibiting at the show. “We are looking
forward to meeting our existing Botswana students and also introducing the
company to new students who are keen to progress their careers in the world of
health and safety,” says SHEilds South African Director Paul Cook. Electra Mining Botswana is supported by the Ministry
of Mineral Resources, Green Technology and Energy Security, the Ministry of
Investment, Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Employment, Labour Productivity
and Skills Development – which falls under the Department of Occupational Health
and Safety, the
Botswana Chamber of Mines, the Botswana Institution of Engineers, Business
Botswana, the Mining Equipment Manufacturers of South Africa and the South
African Capital Equipment Export Council. For the full seminar program, further information and online visitor
registration, visit the website www.electramining.co.bw Specialised Exhibitions
Montgomery is a member of the prestigious Montgomery Group, one of the most
widely respected exhibition companies in the world with trade shows, consumer
shows and specialist projects currently spanning Europe, the Middle East, Africa
and Asia. They are also a member of the Association of African Exhibition
Organisers (AAXO). The
TRM Group is a wholly Botswana citizen owned Company whose core focus is on
promoting a safer, healthier and environmentally friendly
workplace, whilst also promoting health and safety awareness to the country as
a whole.  The company offers SHERQ
Consultancy, Education & Training, Spill Containment and Business
Facilitation. For further information,
contact: Leigh
Miller | Marketing Manager, Electra Mining Botswana & A-OSH Expo Botswana Tel:
+27 010 003 3060 | Email: leighm@specialised.com Gorata
Manyaapelo | Managing Director, TRM Group Mobile:
(+267) 72908575 | Email: manyaapelo@trmgroup.co.bw Charlene
Hefer | Portfolio Director: Mining and Industrial, Specialised Exhibitions
Montgomery Tel:
+27 (0) 10 003 3039 | Email: charleneh@specialised.com