Exclusive interview with Jakes Luus, Operations Director, Panafrican Equipment Nigeria Limited, a returning bronze sponsor at the upcoming Nigeria Mining Week in Abuja from 14-16 October in Abuja. Let’s start with some background on Panafrican Group and your work in the mining sector?Panafrican Group is a recognised leader in providing Komatsu, mining and construction equipment, also adding our AGCO Agriculture range in support of our farming customers. Panafrican Group strives to understand our customer needs and deliver solutions tailored to our customer's requirements with a key focus on higher productivity and performance, improved reliability and machine availability, and reducing life of asset cost and cost per material movement. For the miners, Panafrican Group offers an extensive product line that will take care of all mining needs from smaller operations to mass excavation. Komatsu equipment is supportive with an excellent aftersales and service support as we strive to deliver performance with respect, integrity, attention to detail and accountability. Any projects that you are involved in, in Nigeria that you are particularly excited about at the moment?Panafrican Group delivery of over $100 million worth of mining equipment to Dangote group in the past is worth mentioning. We also work with other major customers in industry like BUA. Not only in the cement division but also in the agriculture sector, and many small and medium mining and construction firms - the list is too long to mention all. What in your view are the challenges to taking the mining sector in Nigeria to the next level?Lack of bankable geological data is a major challenge. We need to focus more on exploration to determine the quantity and quality of what we claim to have. The other problem is the capital-intensive nature of mining startups. What is your vision for the mining sector in Nigeria?Cost per ton of material movement is important. Our vision is to help miners to bring this down by providing the right equipment and support, making the industry more profitable and thereby encourage more investment. You are a returning sponsor at Nigeria Mining Week 2019. How important is this event to showcase the country’s mining potential?An event like this is suitable for all the stakeholders to interact with a variety of people from different mining sectors and share ideas and possible solutions with fellow miners and walk away with new concepts that hopefully solve some of their problems. What will be your message at the event?Panafrican Equipment is setting a high standard for equipment and product support in Nigeria as we are serious about equipment and service support in all our sectors of operations in Nigeria. Support is a critical factor in the mining industry and Panafrican Group walks the extra mile with our customers through our excellent support and backup service. Anything you would like to add?There is a Komatsu equipment combination that will deliver the best cost per ton in any mining operation, focus on productivity, availability and reliability, reducing the life of asset cost we as Panafrican Group have the experience and tools to plan along with our customers. Come to our stand and talk to us for your mining solutions. 