Innovation will be a key driver at this year’s Electra Mining Botswana,
taking place at
the Gaborone Fairgrounds from 10-12 September. Co-located with the Africa
Occupational Safety and Health (A-OSH) Expo Botswana, it is the only exhibition
in Botswana that covers mining, industrial, power and occupational safety and
health. “Taking place every two years,
Electra Mining Botswana offers an excellent networking opportunity for buyers
and sellers across these industry sectors,” says Charlene Hefer, portfolio director at
Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery. “Visitors will see the latest technologies, state-of-the-art machinery,
and innovative products and solutions that will help tackle business priorities
such as reducing downtime, improving efficiency, containing costs and
increasing profitability. The addition of A-OSH Expo Botswana broadens the reach of the show, and our partnership with
local Botswana firm, TRM Group who are forerunners in occupational safety and
health in Botswana, is a benefit to all stakeholders.” The South African Capital Equipment Export Council
(SACEEC), a non-profit public/private
partnership representing the capital equipment and project sector will be
represented at Electra Mining Botswana. “South Africa remains Botswana’s biggest
trading partner and continues to hold huge potential for suppliers; in the
mining sector but also in general engineering,” says SACEEC CEO Eric Bruggeman.
“However, it is no longer enough to just be a ‘trading partner’, more needs to
be done to become ‘industry partners’. We’re looking forward to conversations
at Electra Mining Botswana as SACEEC is working to facilitate partnerships
between SA suppliers and manufacturing companies in other African countries,
with the aim of building strong relationships and innovative solutions for the
African market.” Latest
products and technology at Electra Mining Botswana The state-of-the-art conveyor belt lacing machine will
be showcased during live demonstrations on the Mato stand and visitors will be
able to learn more about their extended range of underground and plant belt
cleaners. Multotec’s cyclones, samplers, pumps magseps and water
treatment products will be showcased on the stand. Multotec will also be represented
by leading product specialists in the Seminar Theatre and will share global
expertise on the topics of water treatment and sampling. Also
exhibiting is Multitrade Distributors, a supplier of carbide cutting tool and
holding solutions to the manufacturing industry. Visitors will be introduced to
AutoCrib industrial vending solutions - machines that provide control and
tractability of products within a company. The vending robots can vend anything
from washers through to PPE and even items as big as a Jet engine can be vended. BEKA
Schréder will be showcasing their latest high-quality
industrial LED lighting solutions, including floodlights, bulkheads and linear
luminaires, at Electra Mining Botswana. Their
latest LED
highbay lighting solution will be launched at the show. Visitors to the OILY stand will
be able to take advantage of their attractive show offer and stand a chance to
win in a daily lucky draw. OILY has a product
range of high-quality, OEM approved oils and lubricants that meet and exceed
the demanding needs of mining industry. Thyssenkrupp will be introducing their new Eccentric Roll Crusher (ERC) designed to revolutionise primary crushing, as well as showcasing existing equipment and solutions that are ideal for Botswana mining applications. Visitors
can learn about the newest IO-Link
technology, digital transformation concepts and suitable applications for plant,
factory and office at the IFM-South Africa stand. BelServest will be
showcasing its ability to provide full property management, camp management,
hospitality services and facilities management services within the Botswana
market. Visitors will gain insight about designing and operating contractors
camps in remote areas with a fully integrated solution including laundry,
catering and facilities management. Demonstration
vehicles will be onsite at the Siemens
Digital Industries
stand to provide a display of process and factory automation, drives, motors
and low voltage switchgear. At
Electra Mining Botswana, TLT-Turbo will be introducing their redesigned
auxiliary and booster fan range, developed in close collaboration with
customers and designed to address efficiency and cost effectiveness with enough
versatility to address customers varying performance needs. Visitors will also see
the latest release from Partition Enterprises. CurvePRO optimises product yield
by monitoring Dense Medium Cyclones and generating accurate, real-time
partition curves; technology that has increased profits of individual mine
sites by up to 10 million dollars annually. Reactore
will be launching its flagship mining software solution, “MineOne” at Electra Mining
Botswana where they will be demonstrating exciting next-generation features.
Additionally, the consulting team is offering a free on-site digitalisation
assessment for three selected visitors. Latest safety
lights will be presented by Pelican Products including the World’s first Remote
Area Lighting System (RALS) with multiple safety certifications for global use. Free to attend seminars Visitors
will also benefit from a full programme of free-to-attend seminars, taking
place alongside the events in the Seminar Theatre. Speakers will be addressing
a variety of topics pertinent to all industries represented at the show, adding
value by sharing their knowledge and expertise. Electra Mining Botswana is supported by the Ministry
of Mineral Resources, Green Technology and Energy Security, the Ministry of
Investment, Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Employment, Labour Productivity
and Skills Development – which falls under the Department of Occupational
Health and Safety, the
Botswana Chamber of Mines, the Botswana Institution of Engineers, Business
Botswana, the Mining Equipment Manufacturers of South Africa and the South African
Capital Equipment Export Council. For additional information and online visitor registration, visit the
website www.electramining.co.bw Specialised Exhibitions
Montgomery is a member of the prestigious Montgomery Group, one of the most
widely respected exhibition companies in the world with trade shows, consumer
shows and specialist projects currently spanning Europe, the Middle East, Africa
and Asia. They are also a member of the Association of African Exhibition
Organisers (AAXO). The
TRM Group is a wholly Botswana citizen owned Company whose core focus is on
promoting a safer, healthier and environmentally friendly
workplace, whilst also promoting health and safety awareness to the country as
a whole.  The company offers SHERQ
Consultancy, Education & Training, Spill Containment and Business
Facilitation. For further information,
contact: Leigh
Miller | Marketing Manager, Electra Mining Botswana & A-OSH Expo Botswana Tel:
+27 010 003 3060 | Email: leighm@specialised.com Gorata
Manyaapelo | Managing Director, TRM Group Mobile:
(+267) 72908575 | Email: manyaapelo@trmgroup.co.bw Charlene
Hefer | Portfolio Director: Mining and Industrial, Specialised Exhibitions
Montgomery Tel:
+27 (0) 10 003 3039 | Email: charleneh@specialised.com