“Aldango desires to change the face of mineral wealth in the region” The Aldango Ltd Gold Refinery in Rwanda has partnered as a diamond sponsor with the upcoming East & Central Africa Mining Forum conference and exhibition in Kigali. The inaugural edition of the event is hosted by the Rwanda Mines, Petroleum and Gas Board (RMB) from 28-29 October and will focus on the opportunities in the regional mining industry. Jean de Dieu Mutunzi, Executive Chairman of Aldango Ltd, says “Aldango is supporting the government to transform Rwanda into a precious metal manufacturing and trading hub across Africa.” Mutunzi will address the opening session of the conference on “Building a state-of-art refining facility“ and take part in panel discussion during a session on “Developing enablers for value addition projects in the region”. The regional mining community is already excited about what promises to
be a high-level sector gathering, with more confirmed government speakers
including: -    Hon. Francis Gatare, Chief Executive Officer, Rwanda Mines, Petroleum & Gas Board (RMB), Rwanda -    Hon Doto Biteko, Minister of Minerals, Tanzania-    Dr Andu Ezbon Adde, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Mining, Republic of South Sudan -    H.E. Amb. Albert Mudenda Muchanga, Commissioner for Trade and Industry, African Union Commission in Ethiopia “We work hand in hand with the RMB” Aldango Ltd (Gold Refinery) is a Rwandan registered legal entity, developing businesses in the gold and precious metal sector in Rwanda and the entire continent at large. In an exclusive interview Mr Mutunzi says “the company is desirous to add great value to the nascent gold sector in Rwanda and beyond, so as to change the face of mineral wealth in the region and solve the so-called resource curse that has befallen the richest nations in sub-Saharan Africa. This is through the company’s robust KCY (know your customer) and strict compliance policy. Aldango has the capacity to process 200 kgs of gold per day.” He
adds: “we work hand in hand with
the RMB, which have proven their expertise in mining, processing and trading
activities.” Event exclusively focused on industryAccording to Mr Mutunzi, Aldango partnered with East & Central Africa Mining Forum “due to the fact that the event is exclusively focused on the mining industry as well as associated support services and we are convinced that this forum will enable to boost Aldango’s profile, expand our networks and can create huge impact to demonstrate Aldango’s product and services.” He adds that their message will be to “inform the participants about the first and only state-of-the-art refining facility in Rwanda, its value addition to the country as well as the business opportunities and services Aldango can offer.” The full interview with the Executive Chairman of Aldango Gold Refinery can be read on the event website: http://www.miningforumafrica.com/Aldango-interview East & Central Africa Mining Forum will provide participants access to best practices to gain insights into reliable, cost effective technologies and fast-tracking financial support. Industry participation will include junior mining operators and exploration companies; stakeholders from the mining equipment, technology and service (METS) sector; transport and logistics firms to help cross-border cooperation; and financiers, who will help provide the right financial model and tools for projects of any scale. The event is organised by Spintelligent, a multi-award-winning Cape Town-based exhibition and conference producer across the continent in the infrastructure, energy and mining sectors. Other well-known events by Spintelligent include DRC Mining Week, Nigeria Mining Week, African Utility Week and POWERGEN Africa, Future Energy East Africa and Future Energy Nigeria. Spintelligent is part of the UK-based Clarion Events Group. East & Central Africa Mining Forum dates and location: Strategic conference and exhibition: 28-29 October 2019 Venue: Radisson Blu Hotel & Convention Centre, Kigali, Rwanda WebsiteFacebook Twitter Contact:Senior Communications Manager:  Annemarie RoodbolTelephone:  +27 21 700 3558annemarie.roodbol@spintelligent.com