Exclusive interview with Mirko Steinhage, Director at Spectrometer Technologies, a bronze sponsor at the upcoming East & Central Africa Mining Forum in Kigali in October. Let’s start with some background on Spectrometer Technologies, your products and the industries you serve? Spectrometer Technologies Pty LTD under the leadership of its MD, Ingo Steinhage, serves the mining industry in Sub Saharan Africa with high quality analytical THERMO NITON X-ray Spectrometers. The company is well established for support and service and the market leader for the past 20 years in these markets. Any specific projects in the mining sector that Spectrometer Technologies is involved in currently that you are particularly excited about at the moment?The 3T Minerals trade market in East Africa’s Great Lakes Region has been a particular success for Spectrometer Technologies with a large customer base requiring our products for accurate ONSITE Analysis. Tell us more about your business interests in the East & Central African regions. And in Africa at large? Spectrometer Technologies’ main interest is to offer its mining customers a fast and accurate Analytical Technique (ED-XRF) in the field on any mining project from Greenfields, Exploration, Mining and Trading of Minerals.How important is sustainability, responsible mining and eco-friendly practices on the ground for the company? Eco-friendly and sustainable responsible mining is of major interest to the company as surveillance and analysis start on most mining projects when contamination and toxic analyses U Th Pb Cd As have to be performed. This would include the local villages’ soil grounds and clean water resources affecting their living conditions. How excited are you about the mining opportunities in Rwanda and the region? Spectrometer Technologies has observed with interest the well-managed Rwandan mining policy. This has also lead to our trust in opening a satellite office in Kigali to serve our customers better. What advice would you give a prospective investor in this sector in the region? Rwanda and its bordering countries are well positioned to cover potential mining companies and investors access to one of the best mineral rich territories for a range of minerals i.e. Ta Sn W Au Cu Co REE etc. What is your vision for mining in East Africa? What surprises you about this sector? Growth in this region has tremendous potential if factors like regional stability and cooperation between governments are achieved. Current companies in operation are achieving reasonable profitability within difficult conditions in the areas they operate. Security, infrastructure and logistical conditions need to improve to grow this market in the future and here governments need to invest and improve matters for investors. Why the decision to partner with the East & Central Africa Mining Forum in October? Spectrometer Technologies sees the East & Central Africa Mining Forum as the most important event in this sector, giving our company the opportunity to network with present and new prospective companies in this market. What will be your message at the event? Support the East African mining market to help and develop the region into a well-coordinated and managed minerals supplier to the larger world markets. What are you most looking forward to in Kigali in October? Meeting, networking and listening to the experts opinions in this regional market for the 3T minerals. Anything else you would like to add? We would like to thank the Rwandan Authorities for their loyal and well run mining events held thus far. Kigali is a beautifully developing city and friendly and safe for all its visitors.