The South African mining sector has reacted with shock to the
untimely passing of Deputy Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy, Ms
Bavelile Hlongwa, in a motor vehicle accident on Friday. Ms Hlongwa tragically lost her life, together with four other
people, in an accident on the N1 from Polokwane. Hlongwa had "stopped to assist a
motorist whose vehicle had overturned on the N1 at Maubane … the deputy
minister, her security detail, emergency medical services personnel and Bakwena
security group personnel were in the process of assisting the motorist when a
flatbed truck crashed into the scene," said Transport Minister Fikile
Mbalula Mbalula in a statement on Saturday. Ms Hlongwa was appointed as Deputy Minister of Mineral
Resources and Energy with effect from 30 May 2019. Prior to her appointment she
served as Executive Deputy Chairperson of the National Youth Development
Agency. She studied at the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) Howard
College where she obtained her Bachelors of Science Degree in Chemical
Engineering. She started her career at Shell Downstream SA. President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed his most sincere
condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of Deputy Minister Hlongwa,
as well as the stakeholders in business, labour and community with whom she
engaged in the mining sector. The President has also expressed his condolences to the
families of the four people who died with the Deputy Minister on scene while
attempting to assist the passengers involved in another incident. “The death of Deputy Minister Hlongwa is a devastating,
untimely loss of a talented young leader who, alongside Minister Gwede
Mantashe, was playing an important and dynamic role in an important sector of
our economy,” said President Ramaphosa. The Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy, Mr Gwede
Mantashe, also reacted with great sadness. “With deep anguish, we wish to join the President and our
country in conveying condolences to the family and loved ones of Comrade
Bavelile. As we commenced our term of office in the new administration of our
Government, we were beginning to gel as we considered ways in which we could
deal with the challenges facing our Ministry, and our country. This is, indeed,
an untimely end to a young, promising prospect”, said Minister Mantashe. Deputy Minister Hlongwa will be honoured with an Official
Funeral Category 2 in line with government’s State, Official and Provincial
Funeral Policy. The President has further directed that the national flag shall
fly at half-mast at every flag station in the country until the Deputy Minister
is laid to rest.