ASX-listed Syrah Resources has announced the appointment of Stephen Wells as Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Wells is an experienced finance executive with almost 25 years of broad financial expertise gained from a range of industries including institutional and investment banking, resources, and international financial services, working in London, Singapore, New York and Australia. Wells was previously CFO and COO of nlc, where his responsibilities included managing nlc during a significant period of change and restructure including acquisition by SG Fleet Group. Read more about Syrah Resources' Balama graphite project He was also CFO for a range of businesses within National Australia Bank’s Wholesale Banking division including the global specialised finance business covering infrastructure, clean energy, natural resources, asset financing and utilities. David Corr has resigned as CFO, having been in the role since January 2015. During his tenure,  Wells has made a significant contribution in overseeing the financial activities and funding of the Balama graphite operation from development into operations. Wells will provide transition support as Stephen takes up the CFO role. Shaun Verner, MD and CEO says: “I am very pleased to welcome Wells to Syrah’s Executive Management team. Wells brings broad strategic financial experience and strong leadership capability. "He will play a key role in Syrah’s future as we continue to develop the Balama graphite operation’s position in the global graphite market and lithium-ion battery supply chain, and progress our battery anode  material and vanadium project options.” Read more about mining in East Africa He adds, “I would also like to thank David for his dedication and major contribution to Syrah during the pivotal development phase of the company. "His key role in Syrah’s transition from development and construction to operations at Balama and now in Vidalia has included funding, corporate process and systems development, procurement and government interaction in addition to his corporate finance responsibilities.” 