Exclusive interview with Jean de Dieu Mutunzi, Executive Chairman, Aldango Ltd (Gold Refinery), Rwanda, a diamond sponsor at the upcoming East & Central Africa Mining Forum where Mutunzi will also address the conference on “Building a state-of-art refining facility. He will also take part in panel discussion during a session on “Developing enablers for value addition projects in the region”. Let’s start with some background on the history, development and capacity of Aldango? Aldango Ltd (Gold Refinery) is a Rwandan registered legal entity, developing businesses in the gold and precious metal sector in Rwanda and the entire continent at large. The company is desirous of adding great value to the nascent gold sector in Rwanda and beyond so as to change the face of mineral wealth in the region and solve the so-called resource curse that has befallen richest nations in sub Saharan Africa. This is through the company’s robust KCY (know your customer) and strict compliance policy. Aldango has the capacity to process 200 kgs of gold per day. Any specific projects that Aldango is involved in currently that you are particularly excited about at the moment? Aldango is supporting the government to transform Rwanda into a precious metal manufacturing and trading hub across Africa. How important is sustainability, responsible mining and eco-friendly practices on the ground for the company? Though Aldango is a precious metal processing and manufacturing company and not a mining, we are advocating responsible mining practices to our clients, artisanal miners and alliances to aid in formalizing the sector and promote value addition. How excited are you about the mining opportunities in Rwanda and the region? Aldango is very much impressed with the unparalleled support from the Rwanda government to the investors and as the mining industry in Rwanda is beginning to flourish, it would be a great advantage for Aldango to sustain its production. What advice would you give a prospective investor in this sector in the region? We cannot deny the fact that some investors claim that Africa has tough business environments, on the contrary, it’s absolutely untrue. Africa with its perfect location, unique natural resources, visionary leaders and developing human capital is full of amazing business opportunities, especially in the mining sector, manufacturing, agro-processing and trading. How important is your relationship with the Rwandan government? We work hand in hand with the Rwanda Mining Board, which have proven their expertise in mining, processing and trading activities. What is your vision for mining in East Africa? Aldango’s vision is to become a global leader in the precious metal industry. Why the decision to partner with the East & Central Africa Mining Forum in October? Due to the fact that East & Central Africa Mining Forum is exclusively focused on the mining industry as well as associated support services we are convinced that this forum will enable to boost Aldango’s profile, expand our networks and can create huge impact to demonstrate Aldango’s product and services. Will you have a specific message at the event? Informing the participants about the first and only state-of-the-art refining facility in Rwanda, its value addition to the country as well as the business opportunities and services Aldango can offer. What are you most looking forward to in Kigali in October? The major activity that our team is anticipating in October is the upcoming East and Central Africa Mining Forum, to showcase Aldango’s expertise and experienced with other stakeholders in Mining industry.