Africa is home to an abundance of natural resources such as platinum, copper, iron, diamonds, silver, gold, and uranium. However, mining and processing these natural resources can prove to be challenging, leaving mining operators in Africa in search of processing options that support efficient and productive mining operations. Clariant, an innovative specialty chemicals company, aims to make African mining customers more successful by providing reliable solutions. A partnership set to increase metallurgical efficiencies for the benefication of mineral wealth in Africa has been concluded between Clariant Mining Solutions and ChemQuest. ChemQuest, owned by SNF Floerger since 2009, is now  a distributor of the Clariant Mining Solutions range of products. The agreement concentrates on providing solution-based specialty chemicals that address challenges experienced specifically in the copper, platinum, gold and base metal mining sector. Countries seen as focus markets are South Africa, Zambia, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Zimbabwe. “We are delighted to have partnered with Clariant Mining Solutions. This partnership with one of the world’s largest specialty chemical manufacturers and solution providers, allows us to jointly be the leading supplier of collectors, frothers and custom-developed products and services, formulated for the extraction of valuable minerals in Africa,” says Heystek du Plessis, MD of ChemQuest. “Our goal is to consistently provide our clients with solutions to enhance performance, while significantly increasing value in their operations. Our aim is to make our customers more successful,” says Dries Lategan, Head of Clariant Mining Solutions, sub-Saharan Africa. Another
highlight for Clariant Mining Solutions in South Africa is the newly opened
state-of-the art laboratory which will serve as a regional hub for mining
operators in Africa. The
investment enables Clariant to become a stronger player in the African mining
markets and to better support customers by improving research and supply chain
capabilities. Lategan says: “The state-of-the-art laboratory makes it possible for Clariant to provide tailored chemical solutions to the mining sector. "We can do metallurgical testwork with state-of-the-art equipment and supply accurate and timeous results for mining customers before setting up the actual investment on the mining site.’’ The proximity of the state-of-the-art laboratory allows Clariant to provide high value to a growing mining sector in Africa. 