Zululand Anthracite Colliery (ZAC), South Africa’s sole producer of prime anthracite, is confident about the medium- to long-term growth of demand for the product as it prepares to expand the life mine beyond the remaining 12 years. “We
are confident about the future of the market both locally and internationally
for ZAC’s products,” says Bradley Hammond, investment company Menar COO. “We
are a ‘One Stop Shop’ for anthracite that has all the facilities to size and
blend our products according to market needs, and we have sufficient capacity
and access to rail for export and transport to local and international
consumers. “We
are the preferred supplier to key industrial clients in the South African
market and we plan to become a bigger player in the anthracite market
worldwide,” Hammond says. “Our strategy of ensuring high tonnages, low cost and high-quality product is one of the main reasons why there is growing interest in our products from countries such as Vietnam, Brazil, USA and Spain. We are therefore aggressively pushing to increase our marketing efforts to expand our global supply footprint,” adds Hammond. Policy changes fueling outlook for coal in China Located
in the district of Ulundi, in northern Kwazulu-Natal, ZAC has 12 Mt of reserves
remaining, five underground sections and produces 1 Mt of anthracite per annum. It
has processing plants onsite, which have a combined processing capacity of 2.2
million tpa. The
product is washed to top qualities of 0.9% to 1.4% sulphur with extremely low
ash content ranging from 8.5% to 18%. The
high-quality products are sized to customer specifications. It is a critical
component in electrode paste, calcium carbide and ferrochrome production, among
other applications. About
80% of ZAC’s product is sold in South Africa as a cheaper option to
manufacturers compared to higher cost Russian anthracite or coke from China. From
uncertainty to aiding economic and social stability in Zululand Hammond recounted about how since Menar, ZAC’s main shareholder, acquired the operations in September 2016, it had overcome immense challenges and transformed it into a sustainable mining operation that contributes to the wellbeing of its host communities. Coal miners need to be committed in investing to create jobs Until
Menar acquired ZAC in 2016, the mine was at different stages owned by BHP
Billiton (from 1985), Riversdale Mining (from 2005) and Rio Tinto (from 2011). Founded by Vuslat Bayoglu, its MD, Menar turned the operation around and it is now on the verge of declaring a maiden dividend that will also benefit the workers and community who hold a combined 26% stake. The
mine employs 1350 people and participates in President Cyril Ramaphosa’s job
creation flagship project, the Youth Employment Service. “ZAC
is not just a mine, it is virtual a city with community and workers forming an
integral part of our family like structure,” stresses Hammond. “We
continue to invest in the mine to improve capacity and efficiencies and aim to
expand our capacity in years to come.” Plans
for expansion of ZAC’s operations to increase life of mine include bringing on
stream new projects such as Riversdale Anthracite Colliery (RAC) and the
Mfolozi Project, which would be a combination of opencast and underground mine.
Both projects located in Northern KwaZulu-Natal. The
continued operation is crucial for the economic development of the community.
In addition to providing jobs and contracting opportunities for community-based
entrepreneurs, ZAC invests heavily in community upliftment projects. “We
supply 42 million litres of clean, potable water to communities through 20 km
of water pipes which we built. ZAC also runs education programmes, agricultural
programmes, operator training initiatives and youth skills training
programmes,” highlights Hammond. Hammond
quotes Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini, who said during a visit to the mine: “ZAC is a very important business in
Zululand and it must be protected and supported by the community and workers.”