AIM-listed Cora Gold has announced that recent assay results confirm a continuation of high-grade gold mineralisation at one of its three main prospects that lie along its 14 km long Sanankoro gold project in southern Mali. Mali – Assay results received from Reverse Circulation ('RC') and diamond core drill programme undertaken at Sanankoro’s 1 500 m Zone B , within 100 m from surface include: Cora Gold says that the incorporation of new results with historical drilling increases confidence in the continuity of mineralised structure at Zone B. Ground conditions inhibited systemic drilling along the entire structure, as such Zone B will be tested further in the upcoming drill programme. Read: Cora Gold sees potential in Sanankoro gold discovery Robust gold structure  Jonathan Forster, CEO of Cora Gold, commented: "This latest set of drill results returned from Zone B has continued to provide strong encouragement that, in time, there is potential to define a robust gold structure through the heart of the prospect at Sanankoro.  The results have provided valuable information, in particular, the core hole which confirmed the higher grades previously identified.   "In an upcoming drill programme, we intend to utilise a more suitable drill rig for the ground conditions, allowing greater access to the whole zone, in the hope that we will be able to demonstrate that, similarly to the Selin and Zone A prospects at Sanankoro, there is the potential for exploitation by open pit in a future mining operation. Our exploration team is looking to mobilise to site at the end of the wet season, early in Q4.” Zone B is situated about 1 000 m north of Zone A along the Sanankoro structure and was previously drilled by Gold Fields on E-W drill fences mainly 200 m apart providing evidence for continuous gold mineralisation along a sub-vertical structure. Five RC drill holes were completed for this programme, testing a 360 m long northern extension of Zone B; in addition a single diamond core hole, consisting of a 60 m RC collar and 79 m core tail, was completed at the southern end of Zone B to infill between two widely spaced previous drill fences. More about Zone B Zone B is situated about 1 000 m north of Zone A along the Sanankoro structure and was previously drilled by Gold Fields on E-W drill fences mainly 200 m apart providing evidence for continuous gold mineralisation along a sub-vertical structure. Five RC drill holes were completed for this programme, testing a 360 m long northern extension of Zone B; in addition a single diamond core hole, consisting of a 60 m RC collar and 79 m core tail, was completed at the southern end of Zone B to infill between two widely spaced previous drill fences.  