Nigeria Mining Week to gather industry in Abuja in October again “Perhaps what makes this year’s Nigeria Mining Week even more interesting is that following the inauguration of the new administration, the new ministers have only recently been appointed for the ministry in the persons of Arc. Olamilekan Adegbite and Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah, the honourable minister and honourable minister of state respectively. This is likely going to be one of their first major interactions with the stakeholders in the sector and it will be great to hear them share their vision and aspirations for the sector during their tenure.” This is according to Mr Cyril Azobu, PwC Nigeria’s Head Advisory and Mining Sector Leader. The upcoming Nigeria Mining Week, taking place in Abuja from 14-16 October, is jointly organized by PwC, Spintelligent and the Mining Association of Nigeria (MAN). “We recently put out a paper in which we shared our
thoughts for the sector going forward” says Mr Azobu “and we look forward to
continuity in the implementation of the roadmap by the new ministers, albeit
with adjustments and enhancements made to certain aspects, to ensure the
targets that have been set therein, are met.” He continues: “for us at PwC, our commitment to supporting stakeholders, both in the public and private sectors, unlock the potential and derive value from the sector is unflinching. "We understand that to achieve progress, there must be close collaboration amongst key stakeholders and we believe the Nigeria Mining Week is an excellent platform for driving this.” Key driver for economic growth The Abuja conference and exhibition is expected to attract more than 1200 mining experts, 180+ mines and exploration companies, 40+ sponsors with more than 24 countries represented. Mr Azobu will chair the Grand Opening Session on 15 October with the theme: “Removing the roadblocks along the value chain: Setting the mining industry as a key driver for economic growth”. Mr Azobu notes that during the last 12 months there have been a few notable achievements in the country’s mining sector. “For example,” he explains, “there have been efforts to improve the sector's regulatory framework with enactment of new laws and establishment of the National Council of Mining and Mineral Resources Development. Notably, The Nigerian Institute of Mining and Geo-sciences, Jos (Establishment) Act was assented to by the president in November 2018 for training of manpower for the sector and research. In addition, the Federal Government in 2018 presented a Roadmap for the ‘Development of Nigeria's Industrial Minerals’, developed by the World Bank assisted Mineral Sector Support for Economic Diversification (MinDiver) Project. Furthermore, the National Gold development efforts saw to the issuance of the first gold refining license in 2018.” He adds that efforts to curb illegal mining were ramped up by the provision of surveillance vehicles for the mines inspectors across the country and increased inter-agency co-operation. PwC Nigeria’s Head Advisory and Mining Sector Leader adds that “the Ministry has also continued on its journey to transform its processes by digitizing some of its key activities. Efforts are ongoing to automate the ministry's activities with the provision of an eGIS web portal and electronic submission of licenses, permits and certificates to improve efficiency and speed-up the processing of transactions.” To read the full interview with Mr Azobu and other event partners, ambassadors, speakers and sponsors, click here. Leading industry suppliers Barron and HMD Mining have already been confirmed as gold sponsors for the event while AG Vision, Kian Smith Trade Co, Meridian Drilling & Exploration Services and PW Nigeria Ltd are silver sponsors. Nigeria Mining Week dates and location: 14 October 2019: Pre-conference: Finance and investment day15-16 October 2019: Opening Session, conference and exhibitionVenue: NAF Conference Centre and Suites in Abuja, Nigeria The event organiser Spintelligent is a well-known trade conference and expo organiser on the continent. The company has particular expertise and experience in mining, infrastructure development and energy; including long-running flagship shows such as Future Energy Nigeria in Lagos, DRC Mining Week in Lubumbashi, East & Central Africa Mining Forum in Kigali and African Utility Week and POWERGEN Africa in Cape Town. WebsiteTwitterLinkedIN Media contact: Senior communications manager: Annemarie Roodbol Telephone:  +27 21 700 3558 Email: annemarie.roodbol@spintelligent.com 