With more than 40 years’ experience and a comprehensive range of vibrating screens, minerals processing equipment company Vibramech has effectively established a strong presence in the mineral resource rich region of Central Africa. To date, the company’s installation footprint across Africa’s central plains the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Gabon, Angola, Rwanda and Kenya. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 8, 2019Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here Vibramech is one of Africa’s largest manufacturers of vibrating mineral processing equipment. “Our current installed base of over 10 000 pieces makes us an African leader in market share. We have earned the reputation of being an OEM that designs and manufactures robust and durable screening equipment and this has stood us in good stead in mining-rich areas such as the DRC,” explains MD David Massey. The company has extensive experience in gold, diamond, coal, iron ore,
manganese, cobalt, platinum, chrome, nickel, uranium, copper, mineral sands and
aggregate operations – most of which are natural occurrences in Central Africa. Vibramech has developed screens such as the multislope (or Banana), horizontal, inclined, double deck and dewatering. It also has a range of proven feeders, such as grizzly feeders, pan feeders, tubular feeders and grease tables. Vibramech: preparing for product demand “Our design practice makes use of Finite Element Analysis and Strain
Gauge Analysis to prove structural integrity, with detailed attention paid to wear
protection and commonality of components to minimise spare parts inventories,” adds
Massey. Bespoke solutions Importantly, Vibramech understands the harsh operating conditions which
vibrating screens, grizzlies and feeders are subjected to in the mining
industry, worldwide. As such, the company is cognisant that its designs need to
cater for both abrasive and corrosive environments. Because sound dynamic behaviour is essential to ensure vibrating
equipment reliability, all equipment is built to perform within strict dynamic
parameters. All internal mating surfaces are machined in order to maintain stringent
dimensional tolerances. In addition, the company’s quality assurance programme makes provision
for a full 3D vibration analysis to be conducted on all equipment prior to
release. This is used as a benchmark for the life of the equipment. A present staff complement of 200 control all activities from sales through to engineering and manufacturing. All equipment is designed and manufactured by Vibramech without the use of manufacturing subcontractors. This ensures complete control over quality and scheduling. Read more about mining in central Africa Furthermore, it’s flexible and practical approach to screen design
enables the client to optimise the vibrating equipment geometry to suit its
specific requirements, resulting in tailor-made equipment. A significant percentage of the screens supplied were manufactured
under the Siebtechnik license which was awarded to Vibramech in 2005. In particular,
Vibramech has continued to supply 4.3 m-wide screens to both local and overseas
projects with numerous screens being supplied into the African market. In addition, Vibramech is the southern African licensee for Liwell screens. These machines have been designed specifically to screen fines from a ‘sticky’ feed in a dry screening operation, and have a worldwide reputation for being the market leader in this field. 