Mkango Resources, the rare earths development company has appointed DRA Global company SENET as lead engineer and project manager for completion of the feasibility study for its Songwe Hill project in Malawi. The feasibility study is being funded by Mkango Resources'
strategic partner, Talaxis, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Noble Group Holdings. SENET's appointment is another key milestone for completion
of the feasibility study and development of the project. A number of work streams for the study are underway; including mining studies, comminution, flotation, hydrometallurgical test work, and studies in relation to the environmental, social and health impact assessment. LEARN MORE: About the imminent production start-up of a lead/silver mine in Malawi William Dawes, Chief Executive of Mkango Resources states: “We are very pleased to appoint SENET for the Songwe
feasibility study. The selection of SENET was measured against a range of
criteria, and its technical capabilities and African experience were key
factors in the decision. Mkango has the right financial and technical
partnerships in place to enable development of Songwe into Africa's leading
producer of rare earths.” “We are delighted to continue with our funding and strategic
support of the Songwe Hill project, which has the potential to become a leading
rare earths producer in Africa,” says Daniel Mamadou, Executive Director of Talaxis. “We are delighted to continue with our funding and strategic support of the Songwe Hill project, which has the potential to become a leading rare earths producer in Africa. Songwe Hill plays an important part in Talaxis’ upstream investment portfolio, as we aim to become a global leader in technology metals project development and the partner of choice for the technology metal and rare earth industry.” LEARN MORE: About transparency in the rare earths sector “Songwe Hill plays an important part in Talaxis' upstream investment portfolio, as we aim to become a global leader in technology metals project development and the partner of choice for the technology metal and rare earth industry.” LEARN MORE: About Mkango Resources This is an exciting prospect for SENET as the company looking to continue demonstrating its diverse capability across the African continent concludes SENET MD Darren Naylor. 