Now in its fourth edition, the country’s leading mining, industrial and
power generation trade exhibition Electra Mining Botswana returns to the Gaborone Fairgrounds and is
taking place from 10-12 September. Over two thousand industry professionals and
decision-makers are expected to attend. A first in Botswana and being
held alongside Electra Mining Botswana is the new Africa Occupational Safety
and Health (A-OSH) Expo Botswana. A wide display of the latest products,
technologies and services across the important occupational safety and health
sector will be on view. “A-OSH Expo Botswana is an ideal vehicle to promote occupational safety
and health in Botswana,” says Charlene Hefer, portfolio director at Specialised
Exhibitions Montgomery. “As organisers we have extensive experience in this
sector having organised nine occupational safety and health trade shows in South
Africa. We have partnered with local Botswana firm, TRM Group, who are
forerunners in occupational safety and health in Botswana.” The
show will put the spotlight on this important sector and visitors will be able
to engage with leading companies operating in this space. Gorata
Manyaapelo, managing director of TRM Group explains that with Botswana’s
growing workforce there is a growing need for occupational safety and health
awareness and implementation, and says that “It’s becoming increasingly
important for companies to ensure the uncompromised health, safety and
wellbeing of employees in the workplace – for economic reasons, as well as to
promote good company values.” As pioneers and leaders in occupational safety and
health, Manyaapelo
says that her company is always at the helm of groundbreaking initiatives in
this sector in Botswana, and that “we are excited to be supporting Electra Mining Botswana and
providing our expertise to the very first A-OSH Expo Botswana.” Exhibitors showcasing latest
products An integrated workplace safety solutions provider that helps
customers create safe working environments is Electra Mining Botswana gold sponsor and exhibitor BBF
Safety Group. BBF will be showcasing their wide range
of safety footwear, workwear, head and face protection. Visitors will be able
to see BBF’s newly launched ranges of fall arrest systems under the
popular Bova and Sisi brands, as well as their latest range of safety footwear:
DCR (Dual Compound Rubber). Mobile Occupational X-Ray Services (MOXS) offers an
on-site chest x-ray service for the occupational health and TB-screening sector.
This is through a mobile unit that is equipped with the highest standard of
digital equipment and professional staff with years of experience. Visitors can
view the mobile unit at the show and a radiographer will be available to take
all interested parties through a demo. Visitors to the Sweet-Orr stand will
see the new flame
retardant denim two piece overall that is being launched at the show. Made of 100%
cotton, it’s naturally anti-static and breathable, and becomes more comfortable
as it takes on the shape of the wearer.
Also on display will be the company’s high-quality and innovative protective workwear
and footwear. Pinnacle
Welding and Safety, an integrated welding and safety supplier to the mining,
engineering, agriculture, construction and automotive sectors, will be launching
a full range digital welding concept in Southern Africa. This includes MMA,
PLASMA, MIG and TIG welding. Another new premium range that will be launched
at Electra Mining Botswana is the Superweld range of welding protection
equipment. Premier
Clothing is excited to be launching new technical workwear products at the show.
New garments for the petroleum industry are made from “RipStop” weave fabric
that is inherently flame retardant, anti-static and chemical resistant; all protection
in one. For the chemical and mining industries, a new acid/chemical resistant
garment has been developed that is made of “RipStop” weave poly/viscose fabric.
The products are SABS SANS 434 certified. At
the Charnaud
stand, visitors can view two of their flagship brands. ALU- SAFE® is an internationally
certified performance work wear, developed specifically to protect workers who
are exposed to molten aluminium and cryolite (reduction cell flux) splash. The
SURVIVE-ARC® range of specialised products protects electrical workers against
the life threatening thermal hazards of electric arc flash. Lifelong
learning For further learning, the Foundation for Professional Development offers a
comprehensive curriculum of courses in management and professional skills
development, customised to the needs of students in sectors such as management,
health and education. SHEilds, the largest provider of NEBOSH e-learning training courses
globally are looking forward to meeting new students who are keen to progress
their careers in the world of safety and health. Visitors
will also benefit from a full programme of free-to-attend seminars, taking
place alongside the events. Speakers will be addressing a variety of topics including
those associated with occupational safety and health, adding value by sharing
their knowledge and expertise. Electra Mining Botswana is supported by the Botswana
government including the Ministry of Mineral Resources, Green Technology and
Energy Security, the Ministry of Investment, Trade and Industry, the Ministry
of Employment, Labour Productivity and Skills Development – which falls under
the Department of Occupational Health and Safety, as well as the Botswana Chamber of Mines, the Botswana
Institution of Engineers, Business Botswana, the Mining Equipment Manufacturers
of South Africa and the South African Capital Equipment Export Council. For additional information and online visitor registration, visit the
website www.electramining.co.bw Specialised Exhibitions
Montgomery is a member of the prestigious Montgomery Group, one of the most
widely respected exhibition companies in the world with trade shows, consumer
shows and specialist projects currently spanning Europe, the Middle East,
Africa and Asia. They are also a member of the Association of African Exhibition
Organisers (AAXO). The
TRM Group is a wholly Botswana citizen owned Company whose core focus is on
promoting a safer, healthier and environmentally friendly
workplace, whilst also promoting health and safety awareness to the country as
a whole.  The company offers SHERQ
Consultancy, Education & Training, Spill Containment and Business
Facilitation. For further information,
contact: Leigh
Miller | Marketing Manager, Electra Mining Botswana & A-OSH Expo Botswana Tel:
+27 010 003 3060 | Email: leighm@specialised.com Gorata
Manyaapelo | Managing Director, TRM Group Mobile:
(+267) 72908575 | Email: manyaapelo@trmgroup.co.bw Charlene
Hefer | Portfolio Director: Mining and Industrial, Specialised Exhibitions
Montgomery Tel:
+27 (0) 10 003 3039 | Email: charleneh@specialised.com