JDCPhosphate has announced that it is moving to commercialise its proprietary technology and changing its name to Novaphos. The
Novaphos technology, formerly called IHP, enables sustainable production of
high-quality superphosphoric acid (SPA) using low-quality phosphate rock
without creating phosphogypsum waste. Novaphos’ carbo-thermal reduction and oxidation process recovers phosphate from low-quality phosphate sources, including previously processed mine tailings, and avoids direct acidulation of phosphate rock, thereby minimizing the amount of waste and completely avoiding production of phosphogypsum. Instead
of phosphogypsum, the Novaphos process co-produces solid balls from which
phosphate has been extracted during processing, a commercially useful aggregate
for construction and road building called J-Rox. During the first calendar quarter of 2019, building on recent achievements at its demonstration plant in Fort Meade, Florida, Novaphos made additional improvements to its technology, further enhancing its efficiency and reliability. The
Novaphos technology is now achieving phosphate yields of about 80%. Acid quality also continues to improve, with impurities at about 2% of SPA-equivalent acid, with strong potential for further improvement at commercial scale. Novaphos
has initiated a process of engagement with major phosphate producers and
engineering companies to fully commercialise the Novaphos technology. “Avenira
is excited to see very strong results from Novaphos,” says Louis Calvarin, MD
of Avenira. “The
recent Novaphos achievements represent very promising next-step development opportunities
for our Wonarah project in Australia as well as at our Baobab project in Senegal
and will factor in our strategic plans.” Novaphos continues to run its demonstration plan using only low-quality phosphate rock tailings, containing an average of about 14% phosphate as P2O5, with high levels of silica and other impurities, including magnesium. Avenira
has exclusive licence rights to use the Novaphos technology in Australia and
Senegal, where it has phosphate projects, for an extended period.