The South African mining industry’s safety performance was once again cast into the spotlight when the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) Chief Inspector of Mines David Msiza released its mine health and safety statistic for 2018. Eighty-one mineworkers lost their lives in the 2018 calendar year, compared with the 90 fatalities in 2017. And while, this shows a 10% improvement in the number of fatalities year-on-year, this is still no substantial improvement and remains a cause for concern. CHANTELLE KOTZE writes. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 4, 2019 Mine safety in South Africa has undergone a significant and sustained improvement in the 22 years from 1994 to 2016, recording an 86% decline in the number of fatalities. However, the safety regression in 2017, in which 90 mineworkers lost their lives, was in stark contrast to the 73 lives lost in 2016 – the lowest number of fatalities in South Africa’s mining industry on record. These
results call into question whether the industry’s aim to achieve Zero Harm by December
2020 is realistic or rather an aim towards which the industry should strive to
achieve by ensuring that every mineworker returns home unharmed, every single
day. To put the DMR’s latest mine health and safety statistics into context, the industry experienced an 86% decline in the number of fatalities in the 22 years from 1994 to 2016, a significant and continued improvement to the statistics reported pre-1994. However, 2017 saw a sharp deterioration in which the industry experienced a spike in fatalities – 90 reported during the calendar year. Mine safety called into question According to DMR
Minister Gwede Mantashe, the fatality trend in 2018 began in a similar fashion
to 2017 – with a number of accidents that resulted in multiple fatalities – and
which affected the number of fatalities greatly. Three standout accidents
occurred in 2018 in which several people lost their lives. Speaking at the
release of the health and safety statistics in Tshwane in March, Mantashe said what
is critical to note is the number of reported fatalities from the gold mining
sector in which 40 mineworkers lost their lives in 2018 – a figure that
remained the same from 2017 – showing no improvement in the number of
fatalities year-on-year. Moreover, the
gold sector reported the highest number of overall fatalities in 2018, he
added. The minister
called on the gold sector – one of South Africa’s oldest mined commodities,
with some of the deepest shafts globally – to ensure that mines its remaining
economic gold resources in the safest possible way. In contrast to
this figure was the platinum industry, which recorded 12 fatalities in 2018, and
was the sector to show the highest and most improved decrease in the number of
reported fatalities for the year with a 59% decrease in fatalities
year-on-year, compared with the 29 lives lost in 2017. Also recording a
decrease in the number of fatalities was the coal sector, which recorded a
slight decrease in fatalities from 10 in 2017 to nine in 2018. With the second
highest number of fatalities to that of the gold sector, was the ‘other mines’
sector, which includes diamonds, chrome, copper and iron ore. This sector recorded
an 82% increase in the number of fatalities from 11 in 2017 to 20 in 2018. Although the
causes of accidents, injuries and fatalities may vary, the major contributor to
the 81 fatalities in 2018 was fall of ground incidents, which were responsible
for 31% of fatalities, followed by transportation and mining equipment incidences
(trackless mobile machinery) at 9% and general accidents (overcome by gas) at
9%. In contrast to
the number of fatalities, the South African mining industry has made
significant headway in decreasing the number of occupational injuries sustained
in 2018 – noting an overall 12% decrease in the number of injuries, from 2,669
in 2017 to 2,350 in 2018. The number of
injuries decreased across the board in the gold, coal and platinum sectors,
decreasing by 15%, 22% and 11% respectively, while the ‘other mines’ sector
recorded a 2% increase from 291 in 2017 to 296 in 2018. “While there has been an improvement in the number of fatalities in 2018,
we as government are greatly concerned that we are still losing lives in the
mining sector mainly caused by repeat accidents such as fall of ground,
transportation related incidents and general accidents,” says Msiza. Occupational health statistics
holds promise In
terms of occupational diseases, the major diseases reported by the sector
include noise-induced hearing loss, silicosis and pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). There has been a slight 3% decrease in recorded occupational diseases from 4,632 cases in 2016 to 4,483 cases in 2017 (the latest available statistics as 2018 results are only reported end of February 2019). Noise-induced hearing loss cases increased from 966 in 2016 to 1,141 in 2017, while reported silicosis cases increased from 635 in 2016 to 653 in 2018. A slight decrease in the number of TB cases was reported, down from 2,580 in 2016 to 2,247 in 2017. A possible reason for this is the effectiveness of the Masoyise iTB campaign, where government, organised labour and the industry are working closely to increase screening and testing for tuberculosis and HIV not only among employees but also in the communities where they live. “It is encouraging to note that the mining sector has placed increased focus on health issues, which has been characterised by an 8% increase in the reporting of medical health issues (Annual Medical Reports) from 902 in 2016 to 975 in 2017,” says Msiza. He adds that this has enabled the DMR to provide more comprehensive data and trends in terms of health issues. The number of medical deaths decreased in both gold
and coal, with 15 deaths reported in the gold sector and one in the coal sector
in 2017. The platinum and ‘other mines’ sectors reported an
increase in medical deaths with seven and two reported respectively, while no
medical deaths were reported in the diamond sector in 2017, compared with one
medical death reported in 2017. “We have agreed as a sector that this is a focus area
that we need to constantly improve on, as we aim to reduce the number of
medical deaths,” says Msiza. Fatality
improvement measures Following the spike in fatalities in the South African mining industry, the DMR has recommitted itself to ensuring and prioritising the safety of all mine employees at all times. In so doing, it issued two health and safety directives in November 2018 – the first to eliminate fire, heat and oxygen deficiency related accidents; and the second to eliminate rock-bursts and rock fall related accidents. According to Msiza, the department intends to
monitor and enforce compliance through inspections and audits to ensure the
implementation of these directives. In addressing the issue of fall of ground incidents, the DMR, in collaboration with the Mine Qualification Authority, Mine Health and Safety Council (MHSC), Council for Geosciences and the South African Institute of Rock Engineers are in the process of training 40 learners in the field of rock engineering and seismology. This is being done to ensure that there are sufficient numbers of competent people who have been trained to improve health and safety standards and processes. Moreover, significant investments
have been made by the MHSC on addressing seismicity and resultant fall of ground
incidents associated with deep-level mines as well as on fundamental and
applied research and technology transfer. According to
Mantashe, the department, together with regional tripartite forums comprising
government, industry and labour, will also continue to conduct health and
safety workshops to train and coach health and safety representatives to
exercise their rights and powers as stipulated in the Mine Health and Safety
Act Speaking on
behalf of the Minerals Council of South Africa, VP Andile Sangqu noted that the
improvement would not have been possible if all tripartite partners, including
government and labour had, not worked together in partnership to address the
safety challenges facing the industry. “But, this
improvement is no ground for complacency,” he said, noting that efforts to
improve further will continue, even when the goal of zero fatalities is
reached. In addition to
the health and safety improvement measures initiated by the DMR, the Minerals
Council has also initiated a number of measures designed to urgently address
the deteriorating trend, said Sangqu. This was largely by
the CEO Zero Harm Forum and included intensified scrutiny on the major causes
of accidents, the sharing of good practice as well as additional and fundamental
research through the Mine Health and Safety Commission. Part of this initiative was the launch in August 2018 of the National Day of Safety & Health in Mining, where all mines of all Minerals Council members were asked to hold special days at which safety and health would be front and centre of each and every person at each and every mine, across all disciplines and jobs. “We cautiously believe that this increasing level of awareness had some impact on raising awareness, and increasing commitment to Zero Harm,” Sanqu concluded. You can read the
full digital magazine here or subscribe
here to
receive a print copy 