Emmerson, the Moroccan focused potash development company, has signed a Heads of Agreement with respect to offtake, sales and marketing for 100% of production from the world class Khemisset Potash Project. Emmerson CEO, Hayden
Locke, CEO of Emmerson, comments: "Signing
a Heads of Agreement is an important step for the Emmerson as we commence early
engagement with sales and marketing partners for product from the world class
Khemisset Potash Project. "We
believe potash produced in Morocco will be in significant demand for a number
of important consuming markets, and this agreement reinforces that belief. "Our
partner's footprint in the fast growing Brazilian and more mature North West
European markets makes them an ideal partner for Emmerson as we focus on those
markets where we would have a strong transport and logistics advantage. "The
benefit of location has been clearly demonstrated in our Scoping Study and we
continue to expect Khemisset to be among the highest margin potash projects in
the world, generating outstanding returns for our shareholders. "Strong
sales and marketing partners will be fundamental to supporting our eventual
discussions with financing partners and we believe our sales partner will
provide significant confidence to all potential lending syndicates for the
Project." The agreement
sets out a commitment for both Emmerson and the counterparty to work towards a
long-term sales agreement for 100% of Khemisset's production, focusing on the
Brazilian, African and North West European markets. Once in
production, Khemisset would be the closest producing potash mine to each of
these key markets and, as a result of this advantageous location, it is
expected that Emmerson will be one of the highest margin potash producers in
the world. The offtake
counterparty is one of the world's leading fertiliser trading, distribution and
marketing companies. Importantly
for Emmerson, it has a significant footprint in the lucrative Brazilian market,
including fertiliser blending facilities, which makes the counterparty an ideal
long-term partner for the Khemisset Project.