The DRC has the potential to become the world’s largest copper producer through the consistent application of clear and rational mining policy. This would be a game changer for the economy, placing the DRC in a position to transform into a middle-income country by 2050. This is according to Peter von Klemperer, the Head of Mining and Metals at the Standard Bank Group, and the exclusive Diamond Plus sponsor at the DRC Mining Week that returns to Lubumbashi from 19-21 June this year. According to the Standard Bank executive, “the DRC is just too important a jurisdiction from a resource volume and grade quality perspective for any serious player in the global mining sector to ignore. Standard Bank remains excited about the opportunities and prospects offered by this important mining investment destination and key global resources supplier.” More than 3 500 international mining experts and local stakeholders from more than 50 countries are expected to attend this iconic exhibition and conference, which is celebrating 15 years of gathering the mining community in the country. Five country pavilions, from France, Germany, South Africa, the UK and Zimbabwe, are part of the exhibition. Important platform “Standard Bank supports a large number of resources clients in the mining sector in the DRC” says Mr von Klemperer, “and DRC Mining Week provides us with an important platform to engage with clients and key stakeholders in the DRC’s resources sector. Standard Bank has been involved in the DRC for over 20 years, funding operations and managing banking for a range of clients, from established developed-world players to newer, Chinese clients.” He continues: “Standard Bank has developed a broad client ecosystem in the DRC, including both mining and resources players as well as the wider services, supplier and support industries associated with the country’s diverse and rich resource endowment. "Beyond Standard Bank’s developed resources sector expertise, the bank’s presence and capability in the country plays a critical role in supporting all our clients' effects, their day-to-day banking and transaction needs on the ground in the DRC. "Combined with Standard Bank’s global presence and capability, this is especially significant for large foreign investors as Standard Bank is also equipped to manage their daily transaction flow in the DRC from anywhere in the world.” As the exclusive Diamond Plus sponsor of the 15-year anniversary of DRC Mining Week, Standard Bank’s message at the event in June will be that “from an investment funding perspective Standard Bank combines global capital reach and world-leading structuring expertise with a developed African balance sheet leveraged by a strong local presence, deep experience and insight, and developed capability within the DRC. The unique universal banking ecosystem that Standard Bank has developed on the ground in the DRC also positions Standard Bank’s Transactional Products and Services and Global Markets teams to support client’s operational business inside the country. This dual global and local capability unites global financial access with on-the-ground execution in a capital-importing sector dependant for earnings upon efficient local production and global export.” The full interview with Standard Bank can be viewed here: http://www.drcminingweek.com/StandardBank-interview DRC Mining Week is organised by Spintelligent, a leading Cape Town-based and multi-award winning organiser of exhibitions and conferences across the continent in the infrastructure, energy, mining and agriculture sectors. Other well-known events by Spintelligent include African Utility Week, Agritech Expo Zambia, Nigeria Mining Week, Future Energy East Africa, Future Energy Nigeria and the East & Central Africa Mining Forum. Spintelligent is part of the UK-based Clarion Events Group. DRC Mining Week:Site visit: 18 June 2019Pre-conference Power Focus Day: 19 June 2019Expo and conference: 19-21 June 2019Location: The Pullman Grand Karavia Hotel, Lubumbashi, DRC Website: http://www.drcminingweek.com    Twitter:  https://twitter.com/drcminingweek   Facebook:  https://www.facebook.com/DRC-Mining-Week-156193451406496/  LinkedIN: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/4922857    Media contact:Senior communications manager: Annemarie RoodbolOffice: +27 21 700 3558Email: annemarie.roodbol@spintelligent.com