ASX-listed AVZ Minerals advises that Serge Ngandu has been appointed as Director of Corporate Affairs for its 60% owned DRC subsidiary, Dathcom Mining. Ngandu is a metallurgist with over 34 years’ experience in the African mining industry. This experience covers various commodities, namely copper, cobalt, zinc, gold, platinum and uranium including mineral processing plant design, commissioning, operating processing plants and project management. He has held senior management and executive roles in private and listed companies. Serge’s early years working life afforded him extensive operational experience on large copper and gold mines, producing 1.5 Mtpa of copper concentrate and 24 tpa of gold respectively. As an associate and director of Hatch - Industrial Minerals from 2004 to 2006 with diamond, titanium and coal in his portfolio, Serge oversaw capital projects. He also restarted the Kolwezi Concentrator at DCP sarl, a subsidiary of Nikanor, in his capacity as COO - Metallurgy in DRC from October 2006 to May 2007. As project director of Areva Resources Centrafrique from 2008 to 2012, he was responsible of the Bakouma Project which doubled its resources under his leadership. As COO from May 2011 to March 2012, he established Ferrum Resources exploration operations in Sierra Leone. From 2012, as Business Development Executive at WorleyParsons, Serge focussed on a number of project development opportunities in West Africa (Mauritania) and Central Africa (DRC). He operated mostly in Africa (West, Central and South) with a short spell in France with a strong focus on mining operations, projects and management of expert teams in the delivery of asset optimisation. AVZ MD, Nigel Ferguson says: “We are very pleased to have been able to secure the services of Serge to assist the team with the successful development of the Manono Lithium and Tin Project. "We look forward to working with him on all aspects of in-country operations from ground level to Government negotiations. Serge has an impeccable reputation in the DRC and as a result is very well respected at all levels. "His experience not only in Africa, but more specifically in the DRC, will be invaluable to successfully developing the Manono Lithium and Tin Project.