Komatsu and MineWare have launched their first factory-fitted payload management system, Argus PLM, at Bauma 2019. Argus
PLM drives whole-of-mine improvement by increasing loading tool productivity
and efficiency, which ultimately lowers cost per tonne. Argus
PLM is an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) version of the MineWare Argus
monitoring system designed exclusively for the Komatsu range of hydraulic
excavators. “Mining
operators need world-class technology solutions to improve productivity, reduce
costs and increase their global competitiveness,” says MineWare Vice President
of Marketing and Sales Roy Pater. “By
uniting Komatsu and MineWare capabilities we’re offering customers the
opportunity to have production improvement technology fully integrated with the
machine, when ordering a new machine, to achieve these benefits. “Argus
PLM enables OEMs, like Komatsu, to deliver a superior and unrivaled machine for
the mining industry while also shifting technology development further towards
tele-remote and autonomous mining operations.” Argus
PLM integrates seamlessly with Komatsu’s Komtrax operating system and forms
part of the on-board display. This delivers actionable production information, in real time, from the machine
directly to the operator. If the mine site has suitable connectivity, this information can be
transmitted back to the site office too. The
system provides mining personnel on and off site with greater production visibility
and performance benchmarking data to monitor, take action and understand how to
improve the machine’s productivity. “This
system adds value to every bucket load,” Pater says, “enabling operators and
supervisors to continually improve productivity and contribute to whole of mine
production. “Ultimately
that means moving more tonnes for less cost.” Komatsu
is the first original equipment manufacturer (OEM) to deliver an in-cab payload
management and guidance system, fully integrated with the excavator’s own
operating system. Argus
PLM will be available on all new Komatsu PC7000-11 models. Komatsu
plans to continue rolling out the Argus PLM across all other PC series
excavator models, in time.