“We achieved gold production of 104,899 ounces for the first quarter of the year,” says Peter Geleta, Interim CEO of Acacia Mining. “While
historically our production is typically stronger in the second half of the
year, production this quarter was impacted by unanticipated production issues
at our North Mara mine. “We have taken
immediate steps to address these, introducing a revised mining plan in
mid-March for both the underground and open pit mines, and we remain confident
of delivering against our full year production guidance of 500,000 to 550,000
ounces. “I would also like to thank our people for their commitment during these times of uncertainty." Gold
production for the quarter of 104,899 ounces was 13% below the prior year
period mainly due to lower production at North Mara and Buzwagi. Gold ounces
sold for the quarter of 104,985 ounces were in line with production. At North Mara,
gold production for the quarter of 66,324 ounces was 14% lower than the prior
year of 76,769 ounces, mainly driven by the consequences of a fall of ground in
the Gokona underground mine at the end of December 2018 as well as an excavator
breakdown in the Nyabirama open pit. The fall of
ground at Gokona prevented access in the quarter to two higher grade stopes in
the East, impacting mine sequencing and ultimately head grade which, at 3g/t,
was 19% lower than the first quarter of last year and below expectations for
the quarter. In order to
address these issues, North Mara began working to a revised mining plan from
mid-March 2019, with new mine sequencing for both the open pit and underground
mines targeting higher grades and increased volumes supported by additional
equipment, as well as initiatives to improve recovery rates in the process
plant and asset reliability. In particular,
the focus on increased volumes from the open pit should allow faster access to
the main higher-grade ore body, while the revised mine sequencing in the
underground mine is designed to ensure smoother transitioning between stopes
and improved productivity. With these
initiatives already underway, we remain on track to achieve our Group
production guidance for the year of 500,000 to 550,000 ounces. Buzwagi gold
production of 28,577 ounces for the quarter was 20% lower than the prior year
of 35,685 ounces but in line with expectations as a result of the mine having
fully transitioned to a lower grade stockpile processing operation. Bulyanhulu
produced 9,999 gold ounces for the quarter, 17% above the prior year of 8,527
ounces and in line with expectations, due to the higher grades recovered from
the retreatment of tailings as well as improvements in plant throughput. All production
continued to be produced from the retreatment of tailings as a result of the
mine being placed on reduced operations in late 2017. The cash
balance as at 31 March 2019 amounted to approximately US$99 million,
representing a decrease of net cash of approximately US$17 million during the
quarter, primarily as a result of the lower production. Through the
quarter, Acacia has continued to engage with and provide support to Barrick in
its direct negotiations with the Government of Tanzania. Acacia is
looking forward to receiving a detailed proposal for a comprehensive resolution
of Acacia’s disputes with the Government, once Barrick’s negotiations have been
successfully concluded. Acacia
continues to favour a negotiated resolution on a timely basis that will benefit
all stakeholders.