In the wake of the global economic crisis there has been a significant change in banking economics; preceded by an avalanche of regulation. Although these prudential reforms have resulted in well capitalized financial institutions; this has certainly come at a cost to the shareholder. Author: Solethu Maku, committee member on the IRMSA Risk Intelligence Committee The regulatory storm seems
to have abated, slightly, and the question remains: will shareholders see an
upside on their investment? One of the ways banks seek
to harness shareholder value is undertaking a rapid digital transformation
journey, which is becoming critical considering the inroads by Fintechs,
characteristic of the advances we are seeing in open baking. “To safeguard their
organization through the digital transformation journey, financial firms need
to close the gap between their digital aspirations and the reality of the
legacy IT estates,” Matthew Hayday at Parker Fitzgerald concluded in the
report, Digital
banking transformation creating new systemic risks. As commercial banking
divisions embrace the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning
(ML) and predictive analytics; so should Risk Management rapidly position
itself as an enabler for conscious risk taking through the exploitation of
technology. The adoption of technology
to a large extent been particularly slow, largely because the cost of errors in
the risk environment can be unacceptably high. If Risk Management
practitioners are to optimally partner with business, a shift in how Risk
Management tools are deployed needs serious consideration towards providing
intuitive, real-time risk management. Techniques such as AI, ML
and analytics are best positioned at modernizing how Risk is managed. As we employ these techniques towards the implementation of a robust and proactive RCSA process, precise capital modelling and efficient risk alert systems we need to consider: Artificial Intelligence
and Machine Learning are not the silver bullets, however coupled with the
expertise of risk practitioners as well as a consistent process of re-design
and improvement, they can be exploited towards transforming how Risk is
managed. “It was eight years ago
that those robots began showing guests around Santander City, but there is
still not a single robot to be found in any of Santander’s 13, 697 bank
branches,” the Financial Times concluded in, AI in banking: the reality behind the hype.