Eurasian Resources Group (ERG) has joined the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative. The Compact, which includes thousands of businesses on every continent and hundreds of other important stakeholders, aims to support broader UN goals and initiatives including the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It also aims to protect human rights, promote best labour practices, the environment and anti-corruption. Benedikt Sobotka, CEO of  ERG, commented: “We are very pleased to join a community of companies and stakeholders whose mission we fully share and are committed to. Human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption are of the highest importance to ERG and we look forward to continuing to embed the Compact across the business and leveraging our industry-leading position to advance this genuinely global and worthy cause.” Ongoing commitment As part of its commitment, ERG  has pledged to not only support the activities and implement the principles of the Compact but also report on the progress of its efforts on an annual basis. That includes detailing the practical actions that the business has taken (or plans to undertake) as well as outcomes achieved. With a view to advancing the UN’s broader development ambitions including the SDGs, ERG will be engaging in collaborative projects and helping shape the international dialogue around this area particularly in relation to the mining industry. “At ERG , we believe that global challenges require a global approach based on partnerships and cooperation. Cobalt, for example, plays an instrumental role in ensuring a transition to a low-carbon economy. One set of challenges that is associated with the soaring demand for cobalt includes the use of child labour and environmentally unsustainable practices often present in the artisanal mining sector,”  Sobotka added. “To help address this, we encourage
industry participants and stakeholders to join us in our efforts to drive a
sustainable battery supply chain.” The UN’s SDGs are also receiving an ever-increasing focus across the business. This is in line with the ERG's wider, longstanding commitment to ensure sustainable production, improve the quality of life for local communities and support multi-stakeholder efforts to achieve a responsible supply chain.