In an exclusive interview with ZimTrade, the national trade development and promotion organisation and facilitator of the Zimbabwe country pavilion exhibiting at DRC Mining Week in Lubumbashi from 19 - 21 June reveals that “the reported US$3 million deals done on site last year is an indication that the country is a lucrative market”. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 3, 2019 Welcome back to DRC Mining
Week! Which companies were part of your pavilion and how was the experience
at the event last year? Last year we had
Zimbabwean companies that manufacture high quality and durable mining
consumables, electricity transformers, power cables, industrial safety
solutions, valves, water pipes and building materials. We were very pleased
with the level of interest in Zimbabwean products and our participants
generated many business leads, some of which they have managed to convert into
export sales within a short period of time. You were quoted in the media last year that companies
on your pavilion secured more than $3 million worth of deals at the event. Can
you tell us more about this? The $3 million reported is an indication that the DRC is a lucrative market and that there is potential for business synergies between Zimbabwean and DRC companies. The deals have spurred us to participate at the show once again in 2019. What products or projects will the ZimTrade pavilion
display at the event in Lubumbashi this year? The Zimbabwean
pavilion will showcase a variety of locally produced products which includes
jaw crushers, rollers, conveyor belts, electricity transformers and cables,
engineering solutions, industrial safety equipment, instrumentation services,
boiler serving, irrigation equipment and water management systems amongst other
products. What makes the mining sector in the DRC exciting for
Zimbabwean companies? According to a market survey that we conducted in Lubumbashi in October 2016, the DRC produces more than 3% of the world’s copper and half its cobalt, most of which comes from the Katanga region. Moreover, the mining sector in the Katanga region is composed of both large-scale mining firms and small artisanal mining operations. Zimbabwean exporters of mining consumables, engineering and safety solutions are looking forward to doing business with both small and large-scale miners in the Katanga region. The DRC, which is a member of SADC and borders five East African Community countries, also serves as a gateway into East Africa, giving Zimbabwean companies an opportunity to expand their business into countries such as Burundi, Rwanda, South Sudan and Uganda. How important is DRC Mining Week as an annual forum
for the mining sector in this region? Our research shows that DRC
Mining Week is the largest mining and industrial platform in DRC which brings
together miners, suppliers of mining and
industrial supplies, international professionals, policymakers and other key stakeholders in the mining sector to
explore and showcase products, services and innovative technologies. Over 2 300 international professionals and stakeholders from more than 50 countries are expected to attend the fair, giving Zimbabwean companies an opportunity to showcase their products to a very wide audience. It is among the key platforms focused on mining within the region, and is doing a great deal to promote regional trade. What will be your message at DRC Mining Week this
year? We are inviting
all visitors to come to the ZimTrade pavilion to meet with our suppliers who
offer high quality and affordable products from Zimbabwe. You can read the
full digital magazine here or subscribe here to receive a print copy