Canadian gold miner Roxgold has completed the acquisition of a portfolio of 11 exploration permits as well as the Séguéla gold project in Côte d'Ivoire from Newcrest West Africa. Côte d'Ivoire – The
tenements are located across prospective Birimian greenstone belts in the
established mining jurisdiction of Côte d'Ivoire and includes highly
prospective early stage projects as well as advanced stage projects throughout
Côte d'Ivoire. To date, approximately US$21 million dollars has been
invested in exploration and approximately 117 000 m of drilling has been
completed on the tenements, allowing for significant scope to build upon
existing data and exploration work completed to date. "We are very pleased to complete this highly accretive
transaction for a total upfront consideration of US$20 million, which delivers
on creating long-term value for our shareholders,” says Roxgold President and
CEO John Dorward. The Séguéla gold project provides a second key asset with
significant growth potential both in the near term through the near-surface
Antenna deposit and attractive satellite opportunities as well as a highly
prospective large land package. Following the acquisition, Roxgold will immediately be commencing
a drilling programme and a preliminary economic assessment study at Séguéla. Roxgold vice president for exploration, Paul Weedon, says
the acquisition will materially increase Roxgold's overall resource inventory,
with work already underway to bring the deposit up to National Instrument
43-101 standards. “We also believe there is substantial near-term exploration
upside at this deposit, and regionally, with the opportunity to significantly
advance Séguéla in the near term with an initial 28 000 m drilling programme to
commence immediately. Drilling programme Work is scheduled to start on the 24 April with 4 000 m of
reverse circulation and diamond core drilling planned at Antenna to extend and
infill the known mineralisation. Potential exists for additional ounces along
strike and at depth. Multiple priority exploration targets within 15 km of the
Antenna deposit also have the potential to increase the mineralisation and
enhance the potential economics of the Séguéla project by adding additional
low-cost near surface ounces. A 24 000 m aircore and select reverse circulation drilling programme is scheduled to start on 29 April testing the highest ranked of these targets based on early stage drilling by Newcrest Mining producing results ranging from trace to 14 m at 58.1 g/t of gold from 0 m, and including several high-grade intercepts from the nearby Boulder, Agouti, Ancien, Gabbro, P3 and Kwenko prospects.