Exclusive interview with Elodie Delagneau, event director of DRC Mining Week, which is celebrating 15 years of mining events in the country. Take us back to when DRC Mining Week was first launched – what was it like and what were your original objectives for the event?DRC Mining Week is the result of 15 years of partnership and hard work between a local and international team dedicated to the growth and  modernisation of the prosperous mining sector in the DRC. Originating  in the original iPAD DRC Mining & Infrastructure, which was first  held in Kinshasa in 2004, the mining focus of the event became more  important and we moved and rebranded the event to become DRC Mining Week  in Lubumbashi in 2015. The first edition was a 2-day conference with  less than 10 sponsors and exhibitors, including First Quantum. We were  looking at creating a dialogue between operators and government to  ensure the transparency and collaboration between public and private  sector. What was the reasoning behind launching the event?iPAD DRC Mining & Infrastructure was the first step to engage with key  stakeholders and mining companies willing to put the DRC in the  international mining arena. The team worked hard to engage and gain the  trust and support of the national and local governments in order to  build a long-term platform servicing the DRC industry. The main goal was  to open the DRC to international investors to support the growth of  existing operations as well as incentivising newcomers to grow their  business in the region. Looking back on 15 years, we feel that the  result was worth the challenge and we are looking forward to extend the  platform.How has the event grown over the last 15 years?Three  years after launching iPAD DRC Mining & Infrastructure, we looked  at gaining more presence in territory and getting closer to the industry  by establishing a “sister” event in Lubumbashi, with a more technical  angle, offering our partners and international mining players a chance  to be in the field and visit key mines in the region. We believe that  this would be a game changer for the local and international industry. In 2008, Katanga Mining Briefing was born with 20 exhibitors, mostly  local. In 2019, a few months away from the show, we were already  counting over 187 companies within our indoor and outdoor exhibition,  with an international participation of more than 60%. How are you celebrating your 15 year anniversary?What  a milestone! For the 15th edition we have added an extra day for our  partners and customers, so that can now enjoy a 3-day expo and  conference, maximising their time in the DRC. We invite our existing  participants and the ones that are still hesitating to join us for three  days of expo, demos, cocktails, networking functions and hopefully  leaving us with more business cards than they can handle. We would like  to acknowledge Standard Bank, our Diamond Plus sponsors, venue and  opening ceremony sponsor, highlighting this special anniversary for us. What are the key and most memorable highlights over the years from the event?Going  back over 15 years of achievement, we mostly shared laughter and  smiles, but sometimes tears to make sure we deliver the quality and the  scope of what the international mining arena expects and aligned the DRC  to those standards. Developing from a platform welcoming a handful of  sponsors, sponsors that we can still count on as key and faithful  partners, into an international hub for the Copperbelt is one of the  greatest highlight for the team. We can proudly announce that we  are expecting five international pavilions at the event this year, from  South Africa, Zimbabwe, UK, France and Germany, bringing no less than  102 companies. On another hand, we are excited to see that  international institutions are opening offices in the DRC, following  successful experiences at DRC Mining Week. So you can now engage with  the SACEEC locally and soon CEC from Zambia will join them. What does the future hold in store for DRC Mining Week?DRC  Mining Week evolved with the market, with its partners and the economy. The outlook for existing commodities and new promising ones, such as  battery metals, is an encouraging sign that new players will come in to  establish business ventures in the region. Some of our partners mention  DRC Mining Week as the “lil” Mining Indaba for the region. We want to  see and position our event as a deal maker platform and a trans border  collaboration hub. Growing the size of the exhibition to allow more players to be part of the show will be a big focus for us, making sure  that we can invite more international pavilion, such as China and India,  the biggest traders in the country. Anything you want to add?If  you read this interview and experience a feeling of “FOMO”, don’t  worry, there is still enough time to join the event with us and a  guarantee for your business to settle in this promising region. Join the  G7, including Barrick Gold Corp’s Dr Mark Bristow, for what is going to be the biggest expo in The Copperbelt.