Mining Indaba is already a month behind us; can you believe it? Having immersed myself in all that the conference and exhibition had to offer over four days, I have come away feeling uplifted. Delegate numbers were undeniably up and I felt a buzz in the air that I haven’t felt in years. This was likely the result of a lot of intensive effort by the Mining Indaba team to provide relevant and interesting information to its audience, in combination with a general consensus that the industry as a whole is definitely no longer in the doldrums of a long-lasting recession. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 3, 2019. This year was a personal highlight for me as well. I was given the opportunity to moderate one of the more ‘high profile’ panel discussions encompassing South Africa’s coal leaders – discussing the future for coal in South Africa and how the renewable energy market may or may not impact this mining sector. This was a proud moment for me to represent our industry as a woman (something Mining Indaba was looking to highlight this year) well as the Mining Review Africa brand. Being amongst the minority in the mining sector, I am glad
to represent the female gender and remind the industry that we’re knowledgeable
and an expert force to be reckoned with. I also brought to the panel discussion more thought provoking questions, thanks to a ‘Coal vs Renewable Energy’ Mining Review Africa/ESI-Africa Webinar I co-moderated the week before Mining Indaba. With three well regarded industry experts who debated the
topic extensively during the session, I learnt a lot about the topic and
believe the outcome of the Webinar and Mining Indaba panel discussions is a
message the industry should collectively take forward to create and ensure
certainty for the industry as whole: Coal-generated energy and renewable energy do not have to
compete but can co-exist together. There is a market for both and investment
should be distributed into both industries. I don’t have the space here to talk about the subject in greater detail but we have included a full-length article on the subject in this edition’s special coal report on page 42 (to be published on 11 April). Take the time to read it. While I’m on the topic of Webinars – let me add that this is a priority focus area for Mining Review Africa in 2019. It is an effective way to educate our market on topics of interest and through our distribution channels guarantees reaching your target audience effectively and efficiently. Our Webinars remain available on our website indefinitely for those who did not have the chance to participate during the live session. Our next Webinar focuses on the importance and/or relevance of hydropower schemes for mines in Africa. Sponsored by environmental consultants Knight Piésold, we again are offering insight into an area that could make a significant financial difference to your operating bottom line – so I encourage you to subscribe and join us for the discussion on 11 April this year. ‘See’ you there. You can read the
full digital magazine here or subscribe here to receive a print copy