With a century-long heritage rooted in southern Africa, key equipment supplier TAKRAF Africa continues to play a pivotal role in the ongoing development of the sub-continent’s mining and industrial sectors. Current projects cover a wide range of commodities, from iron ore through to cement and include clients with whom the company has a long-standing business relationship, stretching well back into the past century. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 3, 2019 A major tippler contract for an iron ore project is at an advanced stage with the tippler and apron feeders already delivered to site. The 8 000 tph dual-wagon rotary tippler offers unloading rates exceeding 100 wagons per hour, and is supplied complete with positioner and ancillary equipment, including hoppers, TAKRAF apron feeders and apron feeder support platform. In addition, a 98 m3/hr reverse pulse bag filter type dust extraction system guarantees an emission rate that meets the stringent requirements of South Africa’s National Environmental Management: Air Quality Act. Safety always a priority In the coal sector, the company is
making good progress on a fast track conveyor project for a power station’s
tippler extraction system, while the Eskom Kusile project is demonstrating not
only TAKRAF Africa’s technical and project management ability to handle mega
and complex contracts but also its commitment to safety and the environment. Says George Jacob, regional sales manager, TAKRAF Africa: “The impressive safety record at Kusile includes milestones of more than 2.3 million LTI (lost-time injury) free hours being achieved during complex and high-risk stages of the project, while TAKRAF Africa has also consistently achieved clean environmental audits from Eskom.” The combined project scope of the
Kusile packages covers the stockyard, limestone and terrace handling systems,
as well as the coal truck offloading system. Following the supply of two load-out stations for a coal project in Mozambique, TAKRAF Africa is also applying its load-out station technology for clinker loading as a part of various material handling contracts in South Africa for a leading cement producer. The timing of the projects is critical as they cover, respectively, material handling for loading of clinker onto rail and road transport systems from a silo in the North West and, through the second contract, material handling for the rail unloading side at a clinker storage facility in the Eastern Cape. In a third contract, TAKRAF Africa is also supplying the material handling system for a fly-ash classification plant. The systems are all equipped with TAKRAF dust extraction systems to reduce dust levels to within regulatory limits. Further north, TAKRAF Africa’s dense phase pneumatic conveying technology has been in demand with a system supplied for a platinum smelter in Zimbabwe. This is the second dense phase conveying system to be supplied to Zimbabwe by the company in recent years, the first being provided to a nickel producer. According to Jacob, TAKRAF Africa’s
ability to support its products over their complete lifecycle is a key
differentiator of its service offering. Recent contract awards for spares
include drive replacements and other spare parts for high rate thickener mechanisms
supplied some years ago to a mammoth nickel project in Madagascar. “As demonstrated by this project, the
longevity of our operation gives our clients the assurance of stable and
ongoing aftermarket support, an important factor when considering the massive
capital investment in mining operations,” Jacob concludes. You can read the
full digital magazine here or subscribe here to receive a print copy