Newmont Mining Corporation has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the outstanding common shares of Goldcorp in a stock-for-stock transaction valued at US$10 billion. Under the terms of the agreement,
Newmont will acquire each Goldcorp share for 0.3280 of a Newmont share, which
represents a 17% premium based on the companies’ 20-day volume weighted average
share prices. The agreement will combine two gold
industry leaders into Newmont Goldcorp,
to create an unmatched portfolio of operations, projects, exploration
opportunities, reserves and people in the gold mining sector. Newmont Goldcorp’s world-class
portfolio will feature operating assets in favourable jurisdictions, an
unparalleled project pipeline, and exploration potential in the most
prospective gold districts around the globe. In addition to providing shareholders
the largest gold Reserves per share, Newmont Goldcorp will offer the highest
annual dividend among senior gold producers. “This combination will create the
world’s leading gold business with the best assets, people, prospects and
value-creation opportunities,” says Gary Goldberg, Newmont’s CEO. “We have a proven strategy and
disciplined implementation plan to realise the full value of the combination,
including an exceptional pool of talented mining professionals, stable and
profitable gold production of six to seven million ounces over a decades-long
time horizon, the sector’s largest gold reserve and resource base, and a
leading project and exploration pipeline.” “Our cultures are well aligned, with
strong commitments to zero harm, inclusion and diversity, and industry-leading
environmental, social and governance performance. We expect to generate up to
$100 million in annual pre-tax synergies, with additional cost and efficiency
opportunities that will be pursued through our proven full potential continuous
improvement programme.” “The combination is expected to be
immediately accretive to Newmont’s net asset value and cash flow per share. We
constantly review opportunities to raise our performance, and this combination
represents the most promising path to deliver superior and sustainable value
for our shareholders, employees, host countries and communities.” Newmont Goldcorp’s Reserves and
Resources will represent the largest in the gold sector and will be located in
favourable mining jurisdictions in the Americas, Australia and Ghana,
representing approximately 75%, 15% and 10%, respectively. Newmont Goldcorp will also prioritise project development by returns and risk, while targeting $1.0 to 1.5 billion in divestitures over the next two years to optimise gold production at a sustainable, steady-state level of six to seven million ounces annually. Supported by stable, profitable long-term production and an investment-grade balance sheet, Newmont Goldcorp will generate robust free cash flow and have the financial flexibility to fund project development and exploration in the decades ahead. “This combination creates the world’s
premier gold company,” says Goldcorp’s President and CEO, David Garofalo. Strategic rationale 
The combination of Newmont and Goldcorp will create the world’s leading gold
company offering shareholders and other stakeholders: Structure and long-term leadership
succession 
Following the merger, management of Newmont Goldcorp will feature proven and
experienced mining and business leaders at both the Board and executive team
levels, along with diverse, high-performing teams at the combined company’s
regional and operating sites. Newmont Goldcorp’s management team
will be appointed on a “best talent” basis, with Gary Goldberg as CEO and Tom
Palmer as President and COO. Building on the depth of Newmont Goldcorp’s
combined global talent pool, the board will continue to focus on strategic
leadership development, robust and thoughtful succession planning, and seamless
leadership transitions. As part of a planned and orderly leadership
succession process, Goldberg and Newmont’s board have been engaged in
discussions anticipating a CEO succession in early 2019. In October of 2018 the Company
also announced 
Palmer’s promotion to President and COO. To ensure a smooth and successful
combination, Goldberg has agreed to lead Newmont Goldcorp through closure of
the transaction and integration of the two companies. The company expects this process to
be substantially completed in the fourth quarter of 2019, when Goldberg plans
to retire and Palmer will become President and CEO. Path to close 
The boards of directors of both companies have unanimously approved the
transaction, including in the case of Goldcorp, on the unanimous recommendation
of a special committee of independent directors of Goldcorp. The transaction is expected to close
in the second quarter of 2019. Closing of the transaction is subject to
approval by the shareholders of both companies; regulatory approvals in a
number of jurisdictions including the European Union, Canada, South Korea and
Mexico; and other customary closing conditions.