 Trading in the shares of the new company created by the merger of Barrick Gold and Randgold Resources started at the opening of business on the New York and Toronto Stock Exchanges on Wednesday, 2 January 2019. The ringing of the opening bell at the NYSE was performed by
the company’s executive chairman, John Thornton, accompanied by the president
and CEO, Mark Bristow. The new company is still known as Barrick but its trading symbol on the NYSE will change to GOLD, the ticker formerly held by Randgold on NASDAQ. On the TSX, the ticker remains ABX. The merger has created a sector-leading gold company which
owns five of the industry’s Top 10 Tier One gold assets (Cortez and Goldstrike
in Nevada, USA (100%); Kibali in DRC (45%); Loulo-Gounkoto in Mali (80%); and
Pueblo Viejo in Dominican Republic (60%)), and two with the potential to become
Tier One gold assets (Goldrush/Fourmile (100%) and Turquoise Ridge (75%), both
in the USA). Barrick has the lowest total cash cost position among its
senior gold peers, and a diversified asset portfolio positioned for growth in
many of the world’s most prolific gold districts. Following the closing of the merger, Barrick’s board of
directors was reconstituted with the following nine directors: John Thornton
(executive chairman), Mark Bristow, María Ignacia Benítez, Gustavo Cisneros,
Christopher Coleman, Michael Evans, Brian Greenspun, Brett Harvey (lead
independent director), and Andrew Quinn. At the opening of markets on Wednesday, Barrick had a market
capitalisation in excess of US$23.75 billion, with the largest reserves base
among its senior gold peers. In a joint letter to stakeholders, John Thornton and Mark
Bristow said that with the best asset base and the strongest management team in
the sector, Barrick was well placed to be the world’s most valued gold mining
business. “We will do so by optimising our existing operations,
pursuing new opportunities that meet strict investment criteria, and developing
them with disciplined efficiency. In all that we do we will be guided by a
long-term strategy and clear implementation plans designed to deliver
sustainable returns to our owners, and real benefits to our partners, host
countries, and communities,” they said.