A new report by the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis finds China is funding over one-quarter of coal plants currently under development outside the country. The report, “China
at a Crossroads: Continued Support for Coal Power Erodes China’s Clean Energy
Leadership” examines China’s expensive subsidisation of largely
imported coal plant investments across 27 countries, all while overtaking the
U.S. and Germany in becoming the number one exporter of cheaper greener
environmental goods and services. Report co-author Melissa Brown, IEEFA Energy Finance Consultant, says funding coal plant projects leaves China and the 27 countries reliant on Chinese coal financing increasingly exposed to bad economic outcomes as nations move away from coal. “The International Energy Agency’s most conservative modelling forecasts declining global coal trade post 2018 for good reason. Coal power locks importing countries into years of uncertainty about power prices as coal prices gyrate. By contrast, renewables are benefitting from huge technology improvements and have a deflationary impact on power prices,” Brown said. “Many private global financial leaders, including most multilateral development banks, have come to see thermal coal as a poor investment with growing stranded asset risks. The World Bank, Standard Chartered UK, Generali of Italy, and Nippon Life of Japan have all turned their back on coal power for solid financial reasons. “China is making great progress
towards becoming a world leader in renewable clean energy at home, but outdated
logic about power system design continues to dominate China’s overseas finance
habits. China’s leading financial institutions lag their global peers in
formally limiting investment in coal plants in international markets, imposing
stranded asset risks on countries that will struggle to adapt as coal power
becomes obsolete.” The IEEFA report finds that
Chinese financial institutions—both the development finance institutions and
state-controlled banks—have committed or offered funding for over one-quarter
(102 GW of the 399 GW) of coal plants currently under development outside
China, including investment in export coal mines, coal-fired power plants, and
the associated rail and port infrastructure. Bangladesh has the most proposed
coal-fired capacity and funding from China, totalling over US$7 billion for 14 GW
of capacity, followed by Vietnam, South Africa, Pakistan and Indonesia. “These countries and more are
instilling both a long-term dependence on volatile fossil fuel imports, and a
dependence on China through coal plant joint ownership and/or strategic
arrangements plus excessive foreign financial leverage, precisely at the time
when prices for solar, wind, and energy efficiency costs are falling below
imported coal power,” co-author Christine Shearer says. The report finds that most coal
funding outside China is being provided by public Chinese banks that back
Chinese state-owned enterprises to build the plants with a largely Chinese
workforce. “Those countries accepting Chinese
coal finance are getting a bad deal from Chinese public institutional lenders
as the total costs are prohibitive when compared to investment in deflationary
renewable energy alternatives,” Shearer said. “With the majority of the planned Chinese coal projects yet to reach financial close in a number of countries, there is the possibility that the deals could fall through or be cancelled. Countries where Chinese finance is yet to be committed should re-focus their energy markets on investment in the grid improvements needed to support renewables.” “As the cost of renewable energy
undercuts new baseload coal-fired plants, IEEFA considers more private
investment in cheaper zero-emissions energy to be a smarter path forward,
rather than blindly agreeing to investment in outdated and expensive coal-fired
plants backed by governments intent on filling their own coffers while everyone
else bears the financial burden of global warming.” “It is time for China to formally
limit its investment in coal plants outside of China and instead promote the
active uptake of cheaper renewable energy and grid technologies. This is what
they are doing at home. Don’t other countries deserve the same opportunity?” Full report: China at a Crossroads: Continued Support for Coal Power Erodes China’s Clean Energy Leadership