JSE/NYSE-listed Sibanye-Stillwater reports that its South African operations achieved a significant safety milestone of 5 000 000 fatality free shifts in January 2019. This milestone shortly follows the Group (including its United States PGM operations) achieving 5 000 000 fatality free shifts. These safety milestones represent a significant recovery in safety across the Group, following a challenging first six-months in 2018. Amongst other initiatives, these encouraging achievements are the outcome of an intensified focus on safety, as part of the adoption of the Sibanye-Stillwater ‘Zero Harm’ Framework, which was jointly developed with direct support of organised labour and the Department of Mineral Resources through a series of Safety Summits. All stakeholders have contributed towards a goal of Zero Harm by building on our focus of creating an enabled environment, with empowered people who make values-based decisions and utilise fit-for-purpose systems. An additional safety initiative identified in 2018, was the formation of a Global Safe Production Advisory Panel (GSPAP). The Group is pleased to advise that it has successfully established GSPAP, consisting of a group of leading academics and chaired by Dr Kobus de Jager (the Group’s head of Safety). The GSPAP ‘s mandate is to provide international insights, best practices and expertise in continuous advancement of safe production mining practices. The five external members include: Sibanye-Stillwater CEO, Neal Froneman comments: “We would like to thank our 70,000 employees and contractors, and all our other stakeholders who enabled us to reach these significant safe production milestones. "The mining environment is a dynamic environment however and we will continue to adapt and innovate in order to continually improve our safety performance. "We are honoured to welcome the five distinguished academics who have agreed to serve on the safety advisory panel and look forward to their sage and esteemed input. "The advisory panel is an acknowledgment of Sibanye-Stillwater’s commitment to Safe Production and underpins our stated purpose that our mining improves lives.”