According to PwC’s Mine 2018 report, “Steady global annual GDP growth over the next five years, along with significant infrastructure growth in emerging economies, is expected to underpin continued demand for mining products.” On the back of this forecast, screening specialist Vibramech is well positioned to see future growth within the company moving into 2019 and beyond. Vibramech is southern
Africa’s largest manufacturer of vibrating minerals processing equipment with
an installed base of over 10 000 pieces of equipment in the mining and minerals
processing industries throughout Africa, Eurasia, Australasia, North and South
America. The company’s equipment is
operating in processing plants, ocean vessels and mining operations world-wide
and as a result boasts extensive experience in gold, diamond, coal, iron ore,
manganese, platinum, chrome, nickel, uranium, copper, mineral sands and aggregate
operations. For over 40 years, Vibramech
has developed and enhanced its comprehensive range of vibrating screens, including
as the multislope (or Banana), horizontal, inclined, double deck and
dewatering. It also has a range of proven feeders, such as grizzly feeders, pan
feeders, tubular feeders and grease tables. “Our brand is today synonymous
with quality, reliable and robust vibrating equipment,” says Vibramech MD David
Massey. The company understands the
harsh operating conditions which vibrating screens, grizzlies and feeders are
subjected to in the mining industry, world-wide. As such, Vibramech is
cognisant that its designs need to cater for both abrasive and corrosive
environments. “We also constantly strive
to provide clients with augmentations to their existing vibrating equipment:
retrofitting custom-made design enhancements to improve on mechanical, wear and
process related characteristics of any componentry,” Massey adds. “With Vibramech, your
operation is ensured a robust equipment design that will provide many years of
reliable service—resulting in lower operating cost and reduced downtime.” As an original equipment
manufacturer (OEM), all equipment is manufactured in-house by Vibramech at its 20
000m2 premises in Chamdor, 35 km west of Johannesburg, South Africa.
Almost every piece of equipment is tailor-made to suit a client’s specific
requirements, from both a plant layout viewpoint
and process considerations. A present staff complement
of 200 control all activities from sales through to engineering and
manufacturing. All equipment is designed and manufactured by Vibramech without
the use of manufacturing subcontractors. This ensures complete control over
quality and scheduling. Furthermore, its flexible
and practical approach to screen design enables the client to optimise the
vibrating equipment geometry to suit its specific requirements, resulting in
tailor-made equipment. Please visit Vibramech’s new website at www.vibramechglobal.com for an overview on how Vibramech could assist with your current and future mineral processing requirements.