AIM-listed mining company Armadale has entered into a formal sale agreement with African Royalty Company for the sale of the Mpokoto gold project in the Democratic Republic of Congo. This stage has been reached after Arrow Mining and African
Royalty completed due diligence and formal terms were finalised and agreed. This agreement now crystallises the value of the Mpokoto project
with a company capable of obtaining the funding to bring the mine into
production. The transaction allows Armadale to focus on advancing its primary value driver, the high-grade Mahenge Liandu graphite project in Tanzania, whilst ensuring the company retains exposure to the development upside of the Mpokoto project. Sale terms Arrow Mining will take over the operations on the Mpokoto project
and is obliged to pay Armadale a 1.5% royalty on gold sales achieved once in
production. The Mpokoto project has a feasibility study based on a 720 000
tpa operation over 4.5 year producing an average of 24 900 ozpa with a
substantial sulphide resource that could further extend the mine life. Sale of the Mpokoto project under the heads of agreement was
conditional upon entry into a formal sale agreement, due diligence and other
standard conditions for regulatory approvals and these have now been satisfied. Funds from the Mpokoto project royalty will be used to
support development of the high grade Mahenge Liandu graphite project, and
Armadale will consider other investment opportunities in line with its existing
investing policy. The net assets relating to Mpokoto in the 30.06.18 balance
sheet (Interim results) were £194,000. Armadale had previously entered into a joint venture
agreement with Kisenge Mining for the project. Kisenge Mining had withdrawn
from the joint venture agreement which allowed the formal agreement to proceed. Nick Johansen, Director of Armadale says, “The Board of Armadale is confident that African Royalty and
its related parties, who have significant experience of operating in the DRC,
represents the best opportunity for Armadale to crystallise the value of the
Mpokoto project and begin receiving returns through the agreed royalty payments
on gold sales.”