The Investing in African Mining Indaba is expected to be bigger, bolder and better than ever as it fulfils its commitment to unite investors, mining companies, governments and other stakeholders. Mining Indaba director of investor relations Kael O' Sullivan speaks to SASCHA SOLOMONS. “It is no secret that junior miners play a vital role in the in the future of mining and it is therefore imperative to create an enabling environment for junior miners,” starts O’Sullivan. Mining Indaba has therefore moved the Investor Lounge closer to the Junior Mining Showcase providing easier interaction between 750+ investors and dealmakers increasing the exposure and networking opportunities between the two groups. Further to this, the show will feature the third installment of the ‘Investment Battlefield’ whereby mining companies pitch their projects to a panel of judges who provide instant live feedback. Projects are grouped together depending on their commodity and lifecycle stage and each company has five minutes to pitch their plan. The judges, who are made up of high-profile investors from companies including Finance Corporation, JP Morgan Asset Management, Van Eck and Orion Resource Partners, give 10 minutes of feedback and decide who wins each category and goes on to ‘battle it out’ in the semi-finals and later the final. The winner will be announced on day three with access to media coverage and a whole list of prizes. The Investment Battlefield is only open to mining companies with a market capital or asset value of $50 million or below. O’Sullivan highlights that it is important for mining entrepreneurs to be given this opportunity to gain exposure and build relationships with investors and brokers. It also allows junior miners to receive first hand feedback from the investors themselves, learn exactly what investors are looking for and how to increase their appeal. In addition it is an opportunity for junior miners to present themselves as leading emerging mining companies. According to director of content Harry Chapman, attendees can expect more interactive discussions, interviews and Q&A with the world’s best known mining experts. Among these experts is the President of Ghana who has been confirmed as keynote speaker with more heads of state expected to join them. Another highlight on the agenda is the Sustainable Development Day used to discuss the role of diversity, inclusion and local communities in the mining sector and discover the newest sustainability-driven innovations. There will also be a focus on Mining 2050 and how big data, automation, artificial intelligence and digitalisation can increase efficiency and visibility. During this year’s extended Mining 2050 programme, attendees can discover the best technologies available in order to visualise how they can be implemented into production processes. Chapman comments that the digital revolution may have hit the mining industry slower than others but now it’s certainly well on its transformation journey. The industry is embracing the move to a digital world. In addition the agenda will also include the opportunity to meet with young talent eager to start a career in mining. Mining executives are more eager than ever to meet and attract young talent to their companies. The Young Leaders programme is a platform that connects the two. It’s an opportunities for students and young people interested in a career in mining to meet with and learn from some of the top executives at the world’s most successful mining companies. “The show will be packed with networking opportunities matched by an agenda that features heads of states, mining ministers and the most influential people in African mining. "No other mining event provides this level of expertise and access to the entire value chain,” says Chapman. He adds that the show is also dedicated to supporting education, career development, sustainable development, and other important causes in Africa.