Future of Mining Australia returns to Sydney in 2019 with the focus on technology, development and sustainability. Taking place from 25-26 March 2019, The Future of Mining Australia conference addresses the long-term goals of the industry with an agenda that has been created by bringing together an advisory board of select leading mining experts and new talent. With over  500 professionals expected to be in attendance, it will cover a vast range of content spanning right across the entire mining life cycle with technology, development and sustainability at its core, focusing on areas of development and the challenges ahead as mining begins to look beyond the now and plan for the future. Key questions the conference will seek to answer include: •    Disruption in mining: Which social, geo-political, economic forces and market trends are reshaping the mining industry? •    Influencing change: How are mining companies re-focussing their efforts on creating a united workforce this is driven by innovation, problem-solving, collaboration and transparency? •    Value chain optimisation: How is the industry challenging itself to develop new ideas, out-of-the-box strategies and next level optimisation? •    Game changing equipment:  Which new technologies are and will be being applied across the mining lifecycle to change the future of mining? •    The human effect:  How can we continue to liberate our workforce through new job creation, training and development? Speakers delivering on these topic areas include Ricus Grimbeek, Chief Operating Officer, North Atlantic Operations and Asian Refineries, Vale Base Metals; Jake Klein, Chief Executive Officer, Evolution Mining; Friska Wirya, Change Lead - Digital, Newcrest Mining, Sabina Shugg AM, Hub Director, Kalgoorlie-Boulder Mining Innovation Hub – CRC ORE and Allan Trench, Professor of Practice, MBA Director, University of Western Australia. The conference is well supported by an extensive array of solution providers specializing in mining equipment, engineering, analytics, Internet of Things, digitisation, consulting, advisory and Artificial Intelligence. These include Caterpillar, Komatsu, Epiroc, Honeywell, Inmarsat, Motion Metrics, Howden, MST Global, Vega, Earth AI and Petra Data Science. It will also for the first time allow startup companies to showcase their latest innovations, game changing equipment and new solutions via the Future of MinTech; a one day forum dedicated to an audience of METS (Mining, Equipment, Technology and Service Providers), Mining Companies and Industry Innovators with content discussions on the key drivers, trends and strategies to working with and aiding the success of startup’s in Mining. For those who are interested in discussing new ideas, concepts and strategies, the Future of Mining is a great opportunity to join like-minded peers in sharing your thoughts. For more information visit https://australia.future-of-mining.com/ For all the latest conference updates, follow on LinkedIn and Twitter using the hashtags #FutureofMining and #FOMSydney