Harmony Gold announced that it is one of 230 companies selected for the 2019 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI). This distinguishes companies committed to transparency in gender reporting and advancing women’s equality. The index doubled in size from 2018 and includes firms from 10 sectors headquartered across 36 countries and regions. Collectively, these firms have a combined market capitalisation of USD9 trillion and employ more than 15 million people, of which 7 million are women, around the world. Thirteen markets are represented for the first time this year and include Argentina, China, Israel
and South Africa. “We are committed to building and maintaining a representative workforce and continuously promote a working environment which provides equal opportunities to all our employees without prejudice of any kind, especially gender based,” comments Peter Steenkamp, CEO of Harmony. Bloomberg’s standardised reporting framework offers public companies the opportunity to disclose information on how they promote gender equality across four separate areas – company statistics, policies, community engagement and products and services. Reporting companies that score above a globally-established threshold, based on the extent of disclosures and the achievement of best-in-class statistics and policies, are included in the GEI. Demand for products and services using ESG data has seen a significant increase over the last years, as a growing number of investors are looking to incorporate environmental, social and governance data into their investment decisions. Still, currently only 10% of eligible companies are disclosing their workplace gender
policies and practices. “We applaud Harmony and the other 229 firms tracked by the index for their action to measure gender equality through the Bloomberg GEI framework,” says Peter T. Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg and founding chairman of the U.S. 30% Club. “Harmony’s GEI inclusion is a strong indicator to its employees, investors and industry peers alike that it is leading by example to advance ongoing efforts for a truly inclusive workplace," he continues. Disclosures from firms included in the 2019 GEI provide a wide-ranging and comprehensive look at how companies around the world are investing in women.