I’m not sure where this year has gone. Writing my last editor’s note for the year gives me a chance to reflect on the months that have passed and they fly in front of my eyes like a movie montage on fast forward. AUTHOR: Laura Cornish It has been a positive year for Mining Review Africa and I will consider 2018 the year the magazine truly cemented itself as a leader in the mining, B2B publishing space. We have delivered exclusive content on Africa’s leading mining projects which I know our readers are hungry to read about. And we have continued to evolve with our industry with content reflecting the disruptive change that technology is bringing to the table. We are moving rapidly in this direction and we will continue to showcase this change as it happens. And I truly believe that our content (in addition to our strong distribution platforms around the globe) is the reason our advertising base has not only remained strong but continues to grow – in a world where print publications are closing. The power of print remains an influential communication platform in our sector and the doors remain open to continue delivering a publication that people can keep close on hand and refer to frequently. Having close ties to our website www.miningreview.com doesn’t hurt however, in fact, it presents us with another platform to publish our content and as a result of this initiative our statistics have grown phenomenally. And of course, our social media platforms are the final cornerstone of our publishing power – which between Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn is directly reaching nearly 19 000 people. From an industry perspective, three key events come to mind that will forever be linked to 2018. Tanzania amended its legislation and subsequently saw a massive retraction from the mining industry. Mining is however a resilient sector and I’m positive will adapt to these requirements with time. Of equal prominence was the DRC’s official conclusion of a new Mining Code – again – met with resistance from the industry. And while I understand the government’s need to increase economic gains from their minerals, I hope the additional revenue will be spent improving the country’s infrastructure for example so that stakeholders recognise the value gained from increased taxes. 2018 is also the year South Africa celebrated the conclusion of its Mining Charter, after years of outcry and distress from a lack of direction as well as a former draft created by ex-minister Mosebenzi Zwane who failed to deliver a document that even remotely reflected a fair and just environment. Current minister Gwede Mantashe has brought a great amount of stability to the sector with the Charter and investment interest has definitely improved. I’m sure this will continue in 2019. The December edition features four mining projects that have excelled in 2018 as a reflection of excellence in mining. The issue offers an exclusive supplement on Wescoal which undeniably fits the category of ‘top performer’. We round this off with an overview of our industry’s performance in the year as well as technology trends and trendsetters making a difference. As always, it’s a pleasure to be a strong communication platform for our industry. I hope 2018 has been a prosperous year for you or at least enabled you to prepare your business to benefit from a fruitful 2019.