Heavy equipment supplier Kanu Equipment has become one of the continent’s most reputable distributors across Africa. This is thanks to the company’s extensive knowledge within the local mining, earthmoving and construction sectors, combined with a significant footprint that stretches across 19 countries – with plans and room for further growth moving forward, CEO STEPHEN SMITHYMAN tells LAURA CORNISH. “Our vision, which remains unchanged since the business was started
in 2012, is to be the most supportive equipment and related spares dealership
on the African continent,” says Smithyman – “A goal which requires continuous focus,
and commitment from our management teams and staff to always improve further as
well.” The company employs 550 people and is the largest independent dealer for Bell Equipment and Liebherr Mining Equipment in Africa. With administrative and finance support teams in South Africa, Mauritius and Switzerland, the company is well equipped to finance machines and provide after-market support, which includes a large stockholding of spare parts available to clients to ensure its equipment can be properly maintained and to reduce unexpected downtime. Beyond its strategic business objectives, Kanu Equipment strives to provide economic upliftment to its local communities, which is admirable. “This specific ambition will also see the company implement an initiative to provide a platform for employees’ personal development,” Smithyman explains. Returning to its core business drive, Kanu Equipment is looking to expand its African footprint. Its supportive private equity shareholders, who are in favour of the CEO’s plans for growth, have given the company the scope and funding to expand its services and reach even further. This most recently saw the company being awarded the dealership rights for Bell Equipment in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) – a country where Bell was directly involved in providing the support. “We are excited by the opportunities this country will bring to the business moving forward, where a number of our global customers are operating.” Beyond this, Uganda and Gambia are also on the expansion
radar and Kanu Equipment is in the process of reviewing the potential these two
countries could offer the business in 2019. Another area expected to deliver massive growth for the company is its after-market replacement parts business, which it introduced to market in 2016, for all makes of machinery. “This business has grown between 40% and 50% per annum, but we believe we can achieve significantly more traction from this division on the back of its ability to fulfil one of our greatest commitments to our clients – reducing their total cost of ownership.”