Thriveni Earthmovers Private operates India's largest energy conglomerate NTPC’s flagship Pakri Barwadih Coal Mining Project Jharkhand, India. Thriveni has awarded Zyfra the contract to implement its Intelligent Mine solution at PBCMP. Zyfra’s mining division (formerly – VIST Group) is one of the global leaders in the automation of large mining companies in Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. “A number of diverse factors contributed to our decision to partner with Zyfra. "My underpinning requirements have been world-class technology, flexibility in approach and adaptability to an Indian operating environment. Read about Wits University's DigiMine "Our investment to collaborate with Zyfra is to ensure the latest technology intelligence like IIOT and AI capabilities are available,” says B. Prabhakaran, MD of Thriveni. “Today we see a request from the market to improve the entire production chain efficiency, not its separate elements. "We are ready to offer to our customer's single digital platform by the principle “Mine to Mill”, which will allow integrating different data into one digital layer and result into the optimization of the processes with the help of Artificial Intelligence,” Pavel Rastopshin, MD of Zyfra. Zyfra’s Intelligent Mine solution includes ZM Karier: Mine Fleet Management System with automatic dispatch system of haul trucks, ZM Drill: Automated Drilling and Blasting Control System and ZM Scarex: Machine Guidance Digging Systems, integrated with Payload and Fuel Level Monitoring System, Tyre Management System, Equipment Diagnostic Systems and other resource planning and application software for data import and export related to planning, production, equipment performance, manpower attendance, real-time analytics. The customer has remote access from anywhere to the existing network, which will available in English, Hindi and other vernacular languages as required. Zyfra will supply,
install, configure, integrate a complete package of equipment, and then
operate, maintain the system and impart training for a period of one year. Automatic dispatching and optimization software allocates mining equipment, creates a schedule and assign routes to mobile equipment according to the production objectives in real-time. The payload and fuel level monitoring system allows optimizing the average payload of haul trucks and eliminating underloading and overloading. Using Intelligent Mine, connected workforce and well-informed operators would enable better safety practices and add real business value to mining operations. “With every passing year, mining operations, not just in India, are carried out in progressively more complex and dangerous geological and climatic conditions. "In order to increase production efficiency in accordance with industrial safety standards, there is a need to develop innovative solutions for the mining industry, including dispatching and diagnostic systems, autonomous or unmanned control systems for dump trucks and drilling rigs and predictive maintenance, and analytics for solving mining process optimization problems. "Unmanned vehicles are the key to innovation in India and the global  mining industry as a whole,” says Liana Meliksetyan, COO of Zyfra.