Millennials and the mining industry, the impending scarcity of battery metals and the impending scarcity of battery metals - Mining Indaba 2020. In its 2019 trend report,
Deloitte’s Tracking the trends 2019, the top 10 issues transforming the future
of mining highlighted an issue that many in mining will already be familiar
with – the industry is struggling with a perception problem among younger
people looking to choose a career path. “Right now,” says Deloitte,
the mining industry is not attracting enough numbers of diverse candidates to
truly move the dial on its diversity and inclusion strategies. To shift this
balance, companies will need to change their talent attraction and retention
policies. Out of Deloitte’s 2019
Millennial Survey, results from the South African cohort reflected the desire millennials
must work in fields that create social impact and positive change. “As miners grapple with the challenge of rebuilding their skill base and developing a workforce capable of bringing the industry along the technology pathway it needs to remain competitive, they must find new ways to motivate their workforce,” says Deloitte. Read more: mining in southern Africa As we enter 2020, the
African mining industry – as well as the industry at a global scale – will
continue to grapple with the generational shift of the workforce and
understanding how to attract and retain millennial workers. Tackling youth unemployment
in South Africa We are very much alive to the fact that youth unemployment is indeed a national crisis said South African President Cyril Ramaphosa on National Youth Day. Read: Minerals Council responds to challenges from President – Part 1 With unemployment rates inching up to 27.6% in the first quarter of 2019, the year ahead will be an interesting time to see how President Ramaphosa’s government can use the mining industry to help ease the severe unemployment rates for South Africa’s youth population. Read: Minerals Council responds to challenges from President – Part 2 According to Stats SA, almost two-thirds of those who are jobless in South Africa are in the 15-34 age group; around four out of 10 young people do not have a job. Read: Minerals Council responds to challenges from President – Part 3 Launched in 2018, the Youth Employment Service (YES) initiative is continuing its efforts to create job opportunities for young people and could see the mining industry become an integral part. Read: Minerals Council responds to challenges from President – Part 4 President Ramaphosa’s YES
initiative aims to give businesses an incentive to employ younger people
through tax breaks and improved black economic empowerment ratings. The impending scarcity of battery
metals As the demand for electric
vehicles (EV) grows and their rate of manufacturing increases, companies including
Tesla say we are likely to face a shortage of the key metals required for EVs
and struggle to keep up with this mounting demand. From the Democratic
Republic of Congo’s (DRC) cobalt supplies to the copper reserves they and Zambia
have on offer, it’s no wonder they are being tapped for their battery metals. As well as cobalt and copper, key elements in making the rechargeable batteries for everything from Teslas to energy storage and iPhones include lithium, nickel, graphite, manganese and rare earths. Have you registered to attend Mining Indaba 2020? Despite the demand for EVs,
investment in the companies carrying out the mining of these battery metals is
lagging, with a burgeoning risk of a global shortage in the minerals growing
more likely. Tesla’s global supply
manager for battery metals, Sarah Maryssael, as well as carmakers including
Ford Motor, Toyota and BMW have said that the auto industry needs to start investing
directly in battery metal mines to make sure supplies are secure for the coming
three to five years. To combat the potential scarcity, companies like Ford – which is looking to launch EVs in the coming year – and Samsung and looking at ways to reduce the amount of cobalt used in their rechargeable batteries and make EVs that are more affordable and less at risk of the battery metal shortage. For more information about Mining Indaba click here