DRDGOLD has built a robust business model and has a sound understanding of how to mitigate current and anticipated challenges to ensure it is fully prepared should the market turn either way. It is therefore no fluke that with the first phase of the company’s Far West Gold Recoveries (FWGR) in full flight and Ergo delivering as expected, the company is able to take full advantage of the current high gold spot price. This article first appeared in Mining
Review Africa Issue 12, 2019
Read
the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here This is a position that that the DRDGOLD team has spent many years cultivating and which CEO Niël Pretorius believes stands the company in good stead in future. The
resilient DRDGOLD has carved a niche for itself in the South African gold
market with its rare expertise in very effectively extracting gold from
marginal surface gold tailings dumps across Johannesburg. As a single asset company less than two years ago, the transformative acquisition of the FWGR project from gold and platinum producer Sibanye-Stillwater for a 38% stake in DRDGOLD (plus the option to acquire a controlling 50.01% interest), has earned the company an additional value-accretive asset (which generated more operating cash flows than its monthly operating costs in no time). Read more about gold Read more about platinum This has placed the company in a very good position to expand its operations even further through growth on the back of the newly established relationship with Sibanye-Stillwater. FWGR
Phase 1 in steady-state production The success of Phase 1 of the two-phase FWGR gold-from-tailings project on the Far West Rand can partly be attributed to the knowledge and systems already implemented, tried and tested through challenging economic and operational conditions at Ergo – DRDGOLD’s East Rand tailings retreatment operation which was partly acquired in 2007 (and fully acquired in 2010) to treat gold tailings deposited across the central and eastern Witwatersrand. The company spent R330.7 million on new capital infrastructure and the refurbishment of FWGR during Phase 1, which reached commercial production in April 2019. FWGR produced 333 kg at a 0.261 g/t yield (excluding the 151 kg of gold produced by FWGR before the date of commercial production) of gold during FY2019, which helped DRDGOLD realise a 6% increase in total gold production of 4 977 kg during this period. Having
gone from concept to production in a very short space of time, the FWGR project
remains well on its way to becoming one of the lowest cost per unit gold
projects in South Africa as it moves into Phase 2. Phase 2 takes shape Having commenced with
conceptual studies on Phase 2, DRDGOLD has evaluated several options on how
best to treat the remaining reserves at FWGR, with several possible development
scenarios currently on the table. “The
overall vision for the longer term still remains the creation of a large,
regional tailings storage facility (TSF) to mine the larger regional gold
tailings mineral resource and produce more gold over a longer period and to
rehabilitate a much larger footprint,” says Pretorius. With a licence to build a TSF that is big enough to
accommodate not only the tailings belonging to the FWGR project, but one that
is considerably bigger than DRDGOLD’s current needs require and which can
accommodate the deposition of all the surrounding tailings, the cost and size
of the TSF will ultimately determine how ambitious DRDGOLD could be with
regards to the size of the processing plant it may build to treat the tailings. At this stage, the licence for the regional TSF entails that the TSF be lined, which DRDGOLD is opposed to from a safety perspective. “Together with our consultants, we are conducting test work to demonstrate that there is no risk of aquifer contamination due to seepage, as the TSF will be located in an area with a layer of impermeable rock,” explains Pretorius. “We would like to reach a point where we can have the licencing conditions amended so we can progress its planning and thereafter its development.” In order to mine the entire FWGR resource, DRDGOLD
requires the new regional TSF, but Pretorius explains that the size and scale
of the TSF is such that in the long-term, if there is potential regional
consolidation of tailings, that the regional TSF will play a necessary part in
that. While
Pretorius maintains that there are a multitude of possible Phase 2 development
scenarios, the more likely scenario at this stage is one in which DRDGOLD
doubles the capacity of the existing processing infrastructure to treat the
remaining FWGR resource, and in future, should the owners of regional tailings
dams wish to partner with the company, the construction of a larger plant can
then be considered. Sibanye-Stillwater partnership If Sibanye-Stillwater exercises its
option in DRDGOLD at the current +R6.00 share price, this would see just over R1
billion flow into the business as a result, and DRDGOLD would be in a position
to act very deliberately in how it progresses at its operations. The relationship with
Sibanye-Stillwater could also see DRDGOLD unlock value from
Sibanye-Stillwater’s non-core surface tailings, which otherwise would have
remained obscured within the broader portfolio, as it is currently doing so with
the FWGR project. Moreover, DRDGOLD may also become the
vehicle for the retreatment of other metals. These opportunities exist not only
in gold but the other commodities into which Sibanye-Stillwater has expanded. Pretorius believes that should DRDGOLD
be commercially successful on the FWGR project that it could become a partner of
choice for Sibanye-Stillwater’s other projects. “Our association with Sibanye-Stillwater could be the start of a very exciting period for DRDGOLD, in terms of providing us with new opportunities to create value from assets that might currently not be receiving value recognition within the larger Sibanye-Stillwater portfolio,” says Pretorius.