The Minerals Council South Africa has welcomed the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy’s (DMRE) statement that it is committed to the development of adequate power generation capacity to meet electricity demand in the interests of economic growth. However, the industry
believes that further actions are urgently needed. A DMRE statement was issued in the wake of Monday’s sudden shift from stage 4 to stage 6 energy curtailment, which resulted in the majority of South Africa’s underground mines suspending operations for at least a day, and other sectors curtailing their activities too. Read: Underground mining resumes in SA because of load shedding Stage 6 load shedding
basically meant that mines were confined to “essential demand” only and this prevented
the night and morning shifts from accessing operations. Stage 4 load shedding requires a 20% demand curtailment. The real impact is that some companies would have lost a week’s production, as crews would have to go back in and first stabilise areas from a safety point of view before mining can resume. Read: Load shedding forces SA underground mines to stop production According to Minerals Council CEO Roger Baxter: “The impact of stage 6
and stage 4 load shedding is devastating for the mining sector, as most mining
companies will not only lose their week’s production, but that this affects the
viability of many of these mines”. He adds that: “Eskom is essentially
making an industrial policy decision to downscale the mining sector when they
make these stage 4 and stage 6 calls”. The situation is
desperate, and demands urgent action by Minister Mantashe and leaders of other
government departments to make possible and drastically streamline regulatory processes
to enable the rapid establishment of self-generation facilities to supplement Eskom’s
constrained capacity, and also urgently open the way for further generation by independent
power producers. While the MCSA is
particularly encouraged by the Minister’s decision to promulgate Section 34 determinations,
it urges urgent implementation. While the Integrated
Resource Plan is used to roll out electricity infrastructure development in line
with Ministerial Determinations that are issued under Section 34 of the
Electricity Regulation Act, the Ministerial Determinations give effect to
planned infrastructure by facilitating the procurement of the required
electricity capacity. In effect, this would
mean that municipalities and large power consumers could procure power directly
from Independent Power Producers (IPP) without having to go through Eskom. Beyond the four
interventions mentioned by the DMRE, to the Minerals Council further calls for
the amendment of schedule 2 of the Electricity Regulation Act, which would lift
the licence requirement for self-generation regardless of plant size. Unregulated generation is
currently limited to 1 MW plants with indications that this will be increased
to 10 MW. Power produced by mining companies for their own use often does not
require Eskom handling or transmission and if so, should not be
subject to licensing, irrespective of size. The current regulatory
requirements to license self-generation for own use are cumbersome and very
time consuming and also involve environmental, land use, NERSA generation licenses
and Eskom permissions where wheeling is required on the national transmission
grid when self-generation occurs at a distance from the mine or plant, along
with IRP 2019 approvals. What is required is a
streamlined process through some kind of “one-stop shop” made up of the
relevant DGs that will enable the urgently required additional power supply to
come online in the shortest possible time period. The Minerals Council’s
latest assessment is that some 869 MW of solar power and up to another 800 MW
of conventional power could be added to the national grid by mining companies
over the next three to four years, with more available from other energy
intensive sectors. “Government should stop
trying to place all their eggs in the one basket called Eskom. We can clearly
see that over the past 12 years, despite hundreds of billions of rand funded
through much higher electricity prices and substantial tax payer funded
bailouts, that Eskom is in an even worse position and this is having a materially
deleterious impact on the economy and mining in particular. “We urge government to
take decisive steps not only to fix Eskom but also to enable the private
sector to bring on stream substantial self-generation capacity. These new self-
generation plants would be at no cost to government, the tax-payer or Eskom and
would help provide the room for Eskom to get its house in order”, says Baxter. These shorter-term steps
are essential. However, if the broader energy supply and cost issues are to be
fully addressed the longer term remedies, including the timeous implementation
of the Integrated Resource Plan and the long-awaited restructuring of Eskom
needs to be allowed to resume, the latter under the direction of an executive
leadership and board empowered to do that. The mining industry, and
South Africa as a whole, needs a reliable electricity supply characterised by a
diversified supply base, globally competitive prices and reliability of supply in
order to enable the mining sector to realise its true economic and
transformational potential. We are open to working
with the DMRE, Eskom and other parts of government to find a workable outcome,
but emphasises Baxter: “We need concrete action plans and accountability for delivery and we are asking government to unleash the energy of the private sector to help resolve this national electricity crisis”.