Pumping fluids with high solids concentrations is far more complicated than just pumping water. To avoid sedimentation in the system, the correct pump size with appropriately dimensioned hoses and pipes must be selected. Adding to the complexity of selecting pumps for slurry pumping applications is that the concentration of solids, together with particle size and shape, can affect performance as well as power requirements. Settled solids might require external agitators, water jets or mixers to get them back in suspension and allow them to be pumped. All these factors need to be considered when selecting the correct slurry pump for an application, and local Grindex distributor, Integrated Pump Technology has issued a caution against making this purchase decision based on capital cost alone. “Slurry pumps need to handle abrasive solids in suspension, including sand, gravel and waste products in high concentration,” Colin Adams, managing director of Integrated Pump Technology says. Read: more about coal mining “Coping with the high levels of wear caused by this abrasion requires a unit with hydraulic parts manufactured from a very hard metal alloy. Selecting anything less will result if high maintenance and repair costs translating into unnecessarily high total cost of ownership.” Grindex Bravo submersible slurry pumps are engineered to cope with the toughest pumping conditions, and the hydraulic components are made from Hard Iron, one of the hardest materials available. “Countering excessive wear is important in slurry pumps and the robust construction of the Bravo pump, coupled with its low shaft speed, ensures high wear resistance even in the most demanding slurry applications,” Adams says The Bravo range can operate over the complete pump curve, not just on a specific duty and can handle from 30 litres per second up to 130 litres per second at a maximum head of 45 metres. The large throughlet means that the pump can handle solids of varying sizes. The pumps are equipped with a leakage sensor that facilitates early detection of any problems, allowing action to be taken as soon as possible. Adams says that with its single adjustment screw it is simple to tweak the pump impeller ensuring optimal performance. Pumps in the Bravo range from the 400 upwards are equipped with an agitator designed specifically for coarser slurries. This enables the pump to stir up and pump sand, sludge and solids in suspension. “Our team of experienced and skills pumps specialists can advise customers on the most appropriate pump for a particular slurry application, assuring that the pump installation will operate at low total cost of ownership,” Adams concludes.