AVZ Minerals is continuing to advance the DFS on its Manono lithium and tin project in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The project, which is said to be one of the largest undeveloped lithium-rich, tantalum pegmatite deposits in the world, looks set to be the front-runner in the race to unlock this sought-after battery mineral in the central African country. CHANTELLE KOTZE writes. This article first appeared in Mining
Review Africa Issue 12, 2019
Read
the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here Despite the current weakness in lithium pricing, with spodumene prices down from above US$900/t in early 2018 to around $560/t currently, as a result of lithium oversupply, lithium consumption volumes are expected to catch up with production volumes as soon as 2021, with prices expected to increase to $1 000/t within the next 10 years. This will be in line with the surge in demand from the burgeoning electric vehicle (EV) market where lithium-ion batteries dominate, which is currently and will continue to be driven higher as vehicle manufacturers in Europe, USA, North America and South East Asia commit to producing more and more EVs in a bid to decarbonise the global transportation sector. The
lithium oversupply has been a result of global trade tensions which has slowed
growth and resulted in the scaling back of Chinese EV subsidies, higher tax on
importation of lithium hydroxide material as well as bottlenecks in the mainly Chinese
downstream chemical conversion industry, undermining lithium demand. A
spotlight on Manono The Manono project, which is located about 500 km north north-east (NNE) of Lubumbashi, comprises an exploration permit covering 242.25 km2 surrounding the world-class historic Manono tin mine. Read: AVZ Minerals begins ESIA studies at Manono project The Manono pegmatite deposit, which has a strike length of at least 13.5 km, is centred on an historical tin mining operation which was mined for its tin content between 1918 and 1982. AVZ Minerals has confirmed two large sectors within the Manono project containing six large pegmatites, all of which contain spodumene mineralisation – the two largest pegmatites in the two areas being Roche Dure in the south west and Carriere de l’Este in the north east. Based on detailed prospect scale mapping, trenching and drill results since acquisition in 2016 until now, and given the size and mineralised nature of the pegmatites at Manono, AVZ Minerals has generated a conceptual exploration target of between 1Bt and 1.2Bt of 1.25% to 1.5% lithium across several pegmatites for the entire Manono project. Read more about mining in central Africa The Roche Dure pegmatite, on which the company’s current mineral resource is based, now stands at 400 Mt at 1.65% lithium,
719 ppm tin and 34 ppm tantalum as reported in May 2019 and includes 269 Mt of
measured and indicated resources – one of the largest and highest grade undeveloped
hard-rock lithium deposits in the world. Expanding lithium production Following an initial 2 Mtpa scoping study which delivered a robust
set of results including an NPV (10%) of $1.6 billion, IRR of 98% (pre-tax, pre-royalties),
AVZ Minerals completed an expanded 5 Mtpa scoping study in May 2019 which
further strengthened the economic potential of the project, with an NPV (10%) of
$2.65 billion ($1.5 billion of which would go to AVZ Minerals based in its 60%
shareholding in the project). The DFS study currently underway is
predicated on the 5 Mtpa scoping study and is expected
to be completed by the end of Q1, 2020. It plots out the plan to develop
Manono in three stages – the first stage entailing a DMS only recovery
producing SC6.0% concentrate (12-month construction period post stage one at
name plate capacity), the second stage combining DMS with an added comminution
and flotation circuit (12-month construction period by year three) and the
third stage adding a hydroxide circuit. This hydroxide plant will produce a
battery grade lithium hydroxide for use in battery manufacture. During the 5 Mtpa scoping study work (which will be further refined in the DFS), AVZ Minerals reviewed several methods of transhipment of concentrate from Manono to the port of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania – a significant operating cost that represents over 60% of total operating costs. Read more about battery metals The
chosen method of transhipment, which has proven to be most cost effective
involves road transport of loose bulk concentrate from Manono via Pweto or
Lubumbashi to a rail siding at Nseluka, rail freight on the Tazara system to
Dar es Salaam, stockpiling in Dar es Salaam, and loading rotor box containers
for rail transport to port for loading onto bulk carrier ships in the Port of Dar
es Salaam. In order to better understand the current and proposed infrastructure to transport Roche Dure concentrate via the port of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, Ferguson met with high ranking officials from Tanzania’s rail, port revenue and investment promotion authorities. Further meetings have strengthened the working relationship and a full technical due diligence on the facilities, rail and rolling stock have now been completed. Making
the grade To increase its confidence that the Manono
project will continue to develop into production and potentially become a significant
source of lithium and tin, AVZ Minerals shipped 14 t of metallurgical core
samples taken from the Roche Dure pegmatite for two-phase metallurgical
testing, the results of which will allow DFS lead
engineer, GR Engineering Services (GRES), to rapidly advance the Manono DFS. Phase 1 of the metallurgical test work
programme to better understand the metallurgical characterisation was completed
in September 2019 and confirmed that the characteristics of the deposit are
well understood, that the deposit is homogeneous and is very clean – with low
levels of deleterious elements within the pegmatite – with iron, mica, fluorine
and phosphorous well within acceptable levels within the concentrate. The Phase 2 metallurgical test work
programme, to be completed at the end of December 2019, is aimed at supporting
and verifying the optimal process scale and flowsheet selection, examining ore
variability and its effects on economic performance, performing all necessary
engineering and vendor testing, as well as generating spodumene concentrates
for marketing assessment by potential offtakers. The completion of all the test work and studies will be fed into the DFS and will enable AVZ Minerals to begin with the preparation of EPC tender packages in Q1, 2020. In terms of early works, the company also intends to order its long lead items at the same time as tendering the EPC package as a means to de-risk the construction duration of the project and to begin some of the infrastructure development – provided that the exploitation permit is awarded by the government. DFS advancing well The DFS field
programme at Roche Dure is gaining momentum with accelerated dewatering of the
Roche Dure pit, expected to be completed in December 2019. The dewatering of the Roche Dure pit (water that has
collected in the pit from rainfall) will enable the start of the pit floor drilling
programme, which is aimed at drilling a sufficient number of tons of the pit
floor to bring this into the measured resource category – further increasing
the mineral resource at Roche Dure. Indicative slope design angles within the pit are
expected to be available around mid-December which will then be used to
determine the mine design of the initial open pit at Roche Dure. The environmental and social impact studies began in early
November 2019 and will focus on the long-term environmental management plan,
the surface water management plan, flora and fauna study, and the social
development programme. Geotechnical studies are nearing completion which will
provide input to the mine pit shell design and mine plan study which was also
kicked off in late November 2019. A full detail technical due diligence study was
conducted in November 2019 on the TAZARA railway line and Dar es Salaam port
facilities to ensure that these facilities could take on the additional
capacity which the Manono project will demand of them. Ore sorting is also being studied to see if this innovative technology may add some value to the project and thereby reduce the operating costs of the process plant. This work will not form the base case of the DFS but will certainly be considered very highly in the list of opportunities to study further post the DFS. Moreover, a marketing assessment, which considers
demand and pricing as well as product specification is almost complete and was
carried out by British consulting group, Roskill. Operational readiness is being reviewed as part of the
DFS and several items such as communication and site internet, software and
hardware requirements are being studied by a consultant.  This study is 75% complete and is due to be
completed in early December 2019. As part of the formal process to convert the exploration permit
into a mining permit (exploitation permit), senior members of AVZ Minerals’
technical team and its consultants have also commenced meeting with local
chiefs and dignitaries to appraise them of the company’s intentions to mine the
Roche Dure deposit, to obtain their input and to address any concerns they have
about future mining activities. While there is an abundance of good raw water supply for both local consumption and any potential mining operation at Manono, power infrastructure is limited. Power is currently generated at Manono using diesel generators and a recently commissioned 1.5 MW solar power system. It is AVZ Minerals’ intention to acquire the rights to rehabilitate the MPiana Mwanga hydroelectric power station (which was originally built for the historic tin mine), which will have the ability to supply at least 66 MW of electricity once refurbished to both the Manono town and to the mine. Rehabilitation of the hydro power plant will be in phases with the first phase being to 22 MW.