Endeavour Mining is convinced of the strategic rationale of combining both companies to create a diversified gold producer with a high-quality portfolio of assets. It continues
to believe that the proposed merger represents a significant value creation
opportunity for both sets of shareholders. On December 14, 2019, the CEO of Endeavour Mining and the Chairman of Centamin met in Perth, Australia, to discuss the merits of the proposed transaction and proposed next steps. Ahead of
this meeting, on December 10, 2019, both companies entered into a mutual non-disclosure
agreement, which did not include a standstill undertaking. During the December 14, 2019, meeting, it was agreed that in order to determine the feasibility of a transaction the parties would need to conduct a reciprocal due diligence exercise. Read: Endeavour seeks engagement with Centamin regarding merger The
objective of the due diligence exercise would be to allow both companies to
further understand each other’s assets and would be a critical precursor to
allowing the parties to determine whether the financial terms of a transaction
could be agreed that was in the best interests of both companies’ shareholders. In order to
commence the due diligence exercise, the parties now need to agree on the scope
and timetable. As such, Endeavour Mining has sent its proposed due diligence
timetable to Centamin. As previously
announced, Endeavour is subject to a “put up or shut up” (“PUSU”) deadline,
under which, in accordance with Rule 2.6(a) of the UK City Code on Takeovers
and Mergers, Endeavour is required, by no later than 5:00pm on December 31,
2019, to announce a firm intention to make an offer in accordance with Rule 2.7
of the Code or to announce it does not intend to make an offer in accordance
with Rule 2.8 of the Code. In the time
between December 3, 2019 and this preliminary engagement, a significant portion
of the PUSU period has elapsed, leaving little time before the expiry of the
PUSU period on December 31, 2019 given scope and timetable are still being
agreed. In order to
allow enough time for both parties to conduct proper due diligence and
subsequently discuss terms, Endeavour has asked Centamin to request that the
Takeover Panel consent to an extension of the PUSU period. Centamin has
however not yet done this and there can be no certainty that they will. In line with
Endeavour’s disciplined approach to business development opportunities and in
light of the need for Endeavour to conduct due diligence on Centamin, Endeavour
will not announce a firm intention to make an offer on or before December 31,
2019 without the recommendation of the Board of Centamin and Endeavour will not
be able to waive this precondition. As Endeavour
Mining announced on December 3, 2019, the making of a firm offer by Endeavour
is conditional upon the satisfaction or waiver by Endeavour of the following
pre-conditions: •          satisfactory completion of due
diligence on Centamin; •          each member of the Centamin Board
giving irrevocable undertakings to vote in favour of the transaction in respect
of all their Centamin shares. Endeavour
has confirmed to Centamin that it is prepared, subject to agreement on mutual
due diligence scope, to execute a standstill undertaking that would preclude
Endeavour from announcing a firm intention to make an offer to the shareholders
of Centamin, unless the offer is recommended by the Centamin Board at the time
of announcement. Endeavour
will, however, retain the flexibility to engage with shareholders at any time
on the progress and outcome of those discussions to ensure shareholders are
able to voice their opinion. There can be no certainty that a transaction will occur.