ASX/LSE-listed Resolute Mining that it has initiated a strategic review process to evaluate options for the Bibiani Gold Mine in Ghana. The
strategic review of Bibiani is designed to review Resolute’s plans to
recommission the mine, assess capital requirements, evaluate funding
alternatives, and investigate recently received expressions of interest from
third parties seeking to acquire the asset. Resolute
has engaged Cutfield Freeman & Co Ltd and Treadstone Resource Partners as
advisors to conduct the strategic review during the first half of 2020 and
explore various options for Bibiani including the off-balance sheet financing
of Resolute’s proposed recommissioning plan, joint ventures, and the partial or
complete divestment of the asset. Bibiani
is a historically significant gold mine situated in the western region of Ghana
and has been a major gold producer in the region. Bibiani has available mining and processing infrastructure on site consisting of a 3 million tpa mill and processing plant, and existing underground mining infrastructure. Read more about gold mining in West Africa Resolute acquired Bibiani in 2014 through a Scheme of Arrangement supported by the Ghanaian Government. The
company placed the mine on care and maintenance following the acquisition to
complete exploration activities designed to enable the development of an
economically viable, long term, larger scale underground operation. In
July 2018, Resolute released an updated feasibility study for Bibiani. The
updated feasibility study demonstrated the potential for Bibiani to produce
~100,000 oz of gold annually at a life-of-mine All-In Sustaining Cost of
US$764/oz over a ten-year mine life. Current
Mineral Resources at Bibiani consist of 21.7 Mt at 3.6 grams of gold per tonne
for 2.5 Moz of gold. The strategic review will seek to maximise value for Resolute shareholders while ensuring that all local stakeholders in Ghana continue to benefit from the essential economic and social advantages that re-establishing successful and sustainable operations at Bibiani will provide. Read: Resolute Mining’s investment in exploration to accelerate in 2020 No
binding agreement has been entered into regarding the financing or divestment
of Bibiani and there is no guarantee that the strategic review will result in
any specific transactional outcome. In pursuit of its ambition to be a low-cost, multi-mine African-focused producer, Resolute continues to actively evaluate growth opportunities both internal and external to the company’s existing portfolio.