Born and raised in Saul Mkhizeville (previously known as Driefontein), the town in which Kangra is located, Simo Yende (27) attended Vukubone Secondary School. “It was very heart warming and meaningful for me to have participated in Kangra’s previous social labour plan (SLP) about five years ago that entailed improving safety standards at the school,” he states. Simo joined Kangra in March 2004 as a General Worker in the underground section of the operation and later that same year became a Machine Operator. By 2006 he had attained certifications to operate large underground machinery such as continuous miners. Within in the space of just a few years he had become a multi-skilled machine operator and attained the position of machine assessor by 2008. During this time, he also worked in Kangra’s training centre doing machinery inductions for new operators and assessing the machines in operation on the mine. In 2013 Simo joined Kangra’s Stakeholder Relation Department and was appointed to the position of Community Liaison Officer, which is a position he still holds and cherishes greatly. He reports directly to Kangra Stakeholder Manager Nelly Mantshintshi. Simo’s role encompasses many aspects of community engagement including, but not limited to, making the community aware of employment opportunities, local business opportunities, taking requests for information and general community enquiries. He notes that the three main communities that fall within the jurisdiction of the mine are Saul Mkhizeville, Donkerhoek and Granspan. “I spend a lot of time placing notices in community which is
our primary way of communicating opportunities to local residents,” he points
out. Furthering
Educational Endeavours Simo is studying a Bachelors of Public Administration (BPA)
through MANCOSA which is being funded by a bursary he received from Kangra. He
is currently in his second year of studies. “I decided to study the BPA as it closely aligns to the work
that I am doing in my department. It is adding so much value to my work,” he says
with much enthusiasm. Simo adds that he is grateful to Kangra for investing in him
to further his studies. “What I am learning is useful to not only my current
position, but can be applied to future ventures after mining,” he states. He concludes by noting that continuous learning forms a
necessary part in acquiring critical thinking skills and discovering new ways
of relating to people from different cultures, which is crucial to fulfilling
his daily work needs.