BCG has identified 10 priority interventions and the roles South Africa’s Government and mining industry can play in them. Once the solid bedrock of South Africa’s economic growth, the country’s mining industry has been in steady decline for the past 20 years as its international competitiveness has waned. While it is important to be cognizant of the
challenges that face the sector, it is equally critical to be aware of the opportunities
and to find ways to revitalize what remains one of South Africa’s most
important industries. This is a key takeaway of Working Together to Re-energize the South African Mining Industry, a report of the Boston Consulting Group (BCG) that is being released today. “We believe that the current positive sentiment in the country has opened a window of opportunity for more constructive engagement among key stakeholders, but the right mindset for collaboration and decisive action is necessary to improve the sector’s competitiveness and achieve higher growth,” says Hans Kuipers, a BCG partner in the Johannesburg office and a coauthor of the report. The report has identified the following ten imperatives
that government, business, and organized labor must prioritize if they are to
overcome such ongoing challenges as subdued demand, diminishing cost
competitiveness, high fatality rates, and continuing policy uncertainty: South Africa’s spending on exploration is the
lowest among leading mining countries, with its share of the global exploration
budget falling from 1.6% in 2009 to 1.1% in 2017. South Africa
can learn from nations such as Canada, which uses Flow Through Shares (FTS) to
encourage investment. FTS allows corporations to pass on exploration
expenditure as a tax-deductible expense to shareholders. Well-established
financing alternatives also include private equity and metal streaming
arrangements. “Mining remains an industry of opportunity and
challenge. And if government, industry, and organized labor work together, it will
be entirely possible to reverse the sector’s fortune and drive the growth it is
capable of,” Kuipers concludes. A copy of the report can be downloaded here