TSX-listed gold miner IAMGOLD Corporation’s has
announced a significant increase to its mineral resource estimate on its 100%
owned Diakha - Siribaya gold project in western Mali. The new estimate comprises 18 Mt of indicated
resources averaging 1.28 g/t for 744 000 oz and a further 23.2 Mt of inferred
resources averaging 1.58 g/t for 1.2 Moz. The Siribaya project is wholly owned by IAMGOLD and consists of eight contiguous exploration permits which cover a total area of 596.5 km², located in the Kédougou-Kéniéba inlier of the West African Craton region of western Mali along the borders with Senegal and Guinea. At
Diakha, the largest deposit discovered to date on the property, gold mineralisation
occurs within an albitized and locally brecciated sandstone unit similar to
that hosting mineralisation at IAMGOLD's Boto gold project located in Senegal
approximately 10 km to the north along strike. A
recently completed feasibility study on the Boto gold project has demonstrated
an attractive future development project. Craig
MacDougall, Senior Vice President, Exploration for IAMGOLD, states: "Our delineation drilling programme completed
over the last two years has not only resulted in a significant increase in
resource ounces, but a substantial conversion of inferred resources to an
indicated category.” “Our exploration success at Diakha, coupled with
the recently announced results of our feasibility study across the border at
our nearby Boto gold project in Senegal, continues to demonstrate the
exploration upside of our very prospective land holdings in this region of West
Africa.” The mineral resource estimate for the Diakha -
Siribaya project incorporates assay results from 474 diamond and reverse
circulation drill holes totaling nearly 73 000 m completed at the Diakha
deposit, and 702 diamond and RC drill holes, totaling approximately 94 000 m
completed at the Zone 1B and Taya Ko zones and along trend. The estimate was prepared using a block model
constrained with 3D wireframes of the principal mineralised domains. Values for
gold were interpolated into blocks using a 2-pass inverse distance cubed (ID3)
interpolation method for the Diakha deposit and inverse distance squared (ID2)
for the Zone 1B - Taya Ko deposits. A preliminary open pit optimisation algorithm was
run on the estimated grade block model to constrain the resource and to support
the CIM requirement that mineral resources have 'reasonable prospects for
eventual economic extraction. The resource estimate assumes a long-term gold
price of US$1 500/oz. Only mineralisation contained within the preliminary pit
shell has been included in the resource estimate. In
2019, exploration and evaluation activities will continue, with approximately
10 000 m of diamond and reverse circulation drilling planned to target resource
expansions at the Diakha deposit and to explore selected priority targets
elsewhere on the large property holdings for additional zones of mineralisation.