Mzwandile Buthelezi of Anglo American Kumba Iron Ore and Fabien Kritter of Hexagon Mining were instrumental in the launch of HxGN Mine VIS. This is the world’s first vehicle intervention system for mining that detects and prevents collisions by automatically slowing down or even stopping a haul truck if an imminent collision is detected. Both
worked together to develop a solution that would create an additional layer of
safety around Hexagon’s Collision Avoidance System (CAS) currently protecting
vehicle operators at Anglo American Kumba Iron Ore’s Sishen mine in South
Africa. HxGN
Mine VIS is now being installed at the mine, well ahead of government
regulations compelling mine operators to install vehicle intervention
technology on vehicles by June 2019. VIS
is a Level 9 system that takes control of a machine in certain situations if
the operator does not react appropriately to a CAS warning. Depending on the
situation, VIS can automatically cut the propulsion, apply the retarder or even
activate the service brakes. Sishen
mine contacted Hexagon Mining about a system in 2014. The mine had conducted an
extensive risk assessment of its operation to understand major risks. Together
with the customer Hexagon Mining defined a step-by-step approach to develop a
solution. VIS
is integrated with CAS and uses the same sensors and user interface, thus
protecting the customer’s initial investment. CAS is used in more than 25 000
mine vehicles worldwide. Roger Dixon: “Safety
through innovation,” FINALIST: Nitralife SA In
1999 Nitralife SA introduced the concept of nitrogen tyre inflation of mining
tyres in South Africa instead of air inflation. Air,
which is 20% oxygen content, combined with the heat generated in a tyre often
caused ignition and tyre explosions on mines which killed several people on
mines every year. Tyre
inflation with nitrogen gas eliminated this possibility so that no tyre explosions
with nitrogen filled tyres ever occurred again. No
nitrogen inflated tyre has ever exploded on a mine to cause death and injury. The
breakthrough came because technology had developed a membrane that could
separate compressed air by special membrane filtration of the air to remove the
combustible gasses from the air leaving 96% to 99% pure inert nitrogen which
cannot explode. This
meant that trucks working with nitrogen inflation were also not threatened by
lightning strikes as had been the case. Jim Pooley: “This submission, although a great idea, is not new however it makes mines safer.”