De Beers Group has announced an initiative to consolidate its mining assets in South Africa and Canada into one business called De Beers Group Managed Operations. The new
business will streamline operational management and identify synergies to
create a more sustainable business in the two countries. De Beers Group
Managed Operations will focus on Venetia Mine, Gahcho Kué Mine and De Beers
Marine under one leadership team. The
restructuring was necessitated by the company’s reduced mining footprint in South
Africa and Canada due to the closures of Snap Lake and Voorspoed Mines, along
with the imminent closure of Victor Mine during May 2019. Nompumelelo (Mpumi) Zikalala will be appointed to the new role of Managing Director for De Beers Group Managed Operations, based in Johannesburg. Bruce Cleaver,
CEO, De Beers Group, says: “We are delighted to appoint Mpumi into this new and
vitally important position to focus on growing a profitable and sustainable
business in both South Africa and Canada. “Our
businesses in these countries face very different challenges and require a
leader of Mpumi’s skill, vision and experience to maximise their full
potential. I am personally very pleased to see her step into this role, which
she does with my full support.”  Mpumi will
move from her current role as Deputy Chief Executive Officer, DBCM, to take
responsibility for the restructure. She will be
supported by Allan Rodel, in the newly created role of Head of Operations, and
a management team based in Johannesburg, but with additional support services
in Canada. Mpumi is an
accomplished leader with more than 18 years’ experience in the mining industry. She began her
career as an Ore Processing Engineer at the Cullinan Diamond Mine in 2001 and
has held numerous roles as General Manager for De Beers Kimberley Mines and
Voorspoed Mine, and as Senior Vice-President for De Beers Sightholder Sales
South Africa. In her role as
Deputy CEO, DBCM, she has been responsible for the De Beers Group South Africa
strategy and consolidating and simplifying its businesses in the country. Speaking about
her appointment, Mpumi says: “I am very
excited to be taking on the role of Managing Director, Managed Operations.
Canada and South Africa are both hugely important to the future of De Beers
Group and we want to continue to grow and invest in both countries. “I am looking
forward to working with the teams and am very grateful to have the support of
Allan Rodel, who has a wealth of experience in both the South African and
Canadian mining industries.” Mpumi’s role
will replace those currently held by Phillip Barton, CEO, DBCM, and Kim Truter,
CEO, De Beers Canada, who will both leave the organisation to focus on new
opportunities. Phillip has
been with De Beers Group for more than 30 years and has played a key role in
mentoring Mpumi and developing her as his successor. Kim joined De
Beers Group in 2015 as CEO of De Beers Canada, bringing with him 30 years of
mining experience. Kim’s achievements at the company include bringing the
Gahcho Kué Mine into operation in 2016 and the acquisition of the Chidliak
Project in 2018. Mpumi holds a
BSc in Chemical Engineering from the University of Witwatersrand and is a
graduate of the London Business School Emerging Leaders Programme. She is a non-executive
Board Director of De Beers Sightholder Sales South Africa and has also served
as Executive Director for various organisations, including the Black Management
Forum and Mintek. 