Mining software solutions specialist Micromine is not only embracing
the concept of automation but is taking it to new levels through research and
pilot test trial studies focused on bringing machine learning/artificial
intelligence to the fore. The ability for machines to learn through
automated data collection and analysis takes the concept of automation to new
levels and is an area Micromine is heavily focusing on. Through advancements to its fleet management
and mine control solution software Pitram, the company has not only determined
machine learning to be possible, but is test trialling its success in an
underground application. “The majority of yellow metal OEMs do offer built-in
machine software that offers automation benefits such as driverless trucks.
Because we are independent of these OEMs we need to look at innovative ways to
differentiate ourselves in the market and machine learning is where we are
focusing a lot of our energies,” says Pitram product strategy manager GarethDean. By capturing certain data sources from for
example a video camera attached to a piece of equipment, in this case an
underground loader, Micromine has through research and development built a model which can analyse
the loader’s performance and then determine how best to adjust the operating
parameters of the loader to optimise its performance efficiency – without human
interaction. Once introduced officially into the market in
early 2019, this new Pitram model will look to consider all operating
procedures connected to the loader – such as the most suitable machine, the
best route to move between points, speed and time, load bucket volumes, number
of loads, and a great number more specifics as well. “This will contribute significantly to the
overall optimisation of underground mines which we believe has a lot of room
for improvement.” This initiative is also part of a greater effort to support and nurture the next generation of software developers. The initial concept was done in collaboration with University of Western Australia (UWA) and five Masters students who took on the study, which started last year. On the back of their success Micromine has employed one of the students to work on machine learning projects full time, improve the initiatives already underway and expand on areas of implementation. Test trials for loading applications
specifically are being conducted in Australia, Mongolia, Russia and the United
States and Dean is eager to explore the opportunities this technology offers
the South African mining industry as well. While the test trials and models are
based on a number of different mining operations, the system will best deliver
when catered to each specific operation it is incorporated into. And because the vision for machine learning is
gaining momentum within the company, Dean and his Pitram team are already
evaluating the potential to optimise the software further by incorporating
on-board sensors into the model. In September this year Micromine initiated a new machine
learning project/challenge, titled “Automated value recognition from an image
of an LCD display”, which is also being undertaken by third-year students from
the UWA Computer Science Faculty. The “Automated value recognition from an image
of an LCD display” challenge is centred around streamlining the integration
between geological data collection devices and geological data management
software. An important function for geologists is capturing and recording
geological data from field using various devices and readers such as scales,
hardness testers, GPS, barcode readers, thermometers and magnetic
susceptibility readers. More often than not, geologists have to submit this
data manually into geological software solutions such as Geobank and Geobank
Mobile. The hypothesis is that a solution could be
developed where a camera takes an image of the LCD screen of a measuring
instrument and the visual cues, such as the edges of the display, can be used
to orientate and extract a value or values from the image. These values can
then be used directly by the software, making the manual transcription no
longer necessary. Just as a human observer can accurately read and record
values from a display, a system could be developed to do the same. Participating students work in groups and have
12 weeks to submit a completed solution. The project follows an agile
methodology, with Micromine’s Geobank technical product manager Derek Vincent evaluating the
progress of the project at regular intervals. “Finding ways to automate the process of
on-boarding third-party devices to Geobank has the potential to save
significant amounts of development work”. The objective of the project is a
proof-of-concept for using existing technologies to extract values from images
of an LCD display of a known device and for using machine learning to learn,
then accurately extract values from new instrument displays.