Canada’s largest city is set to host another outstanding lineup of speakers, short courses, technical sessions, investment opportunities and unparalleled networking events when the PDAC 2019 Convention—the world’s premier mineral exploration and mining convention—returns to Toronto from 3 – 6 March 2019. The Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada’s (PDAC) annual show—celebrating 87 years—will take place at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre (MTCC). In 2018, it attracted more than 25 000 attendees from 135
countries; including analysts, mining executives, geologists, prospectors,
investors, students and government officials from all over the world. “The PDAC Convention is the industry’s most-attended yearly event, leading the way in professional development, networking and educational opportunities,” says PDAC President Glenn Mullan. “This accolade is not coincidental, it is something that we work very hard to achieve each year, and something we are very proud of.” The Aboriginal
Program, Capital
Markets Program, Short Courses,
Sustainability
Program and Technical
Program return, along with a Keynote
Session that will focus on people under 40 years of age in the
industry. “The PDAC Convention is seen as a temperature gauge for the sector, and participation measures how hot or cold the investor climate might be in the year ahead,” says Mullan. “It is also the best opportunity for junior miners and individual prospectors alike to showcase their latest projects and discoveries, and for students to mingle and find their big break.” The International Mines Ministers’ Summit (IMMS)—a unique event that brings together mines ministers from around the world—returns for the fourth year in 2019. This event is co-hosted with the World Economic Forum and provides an important setting for the global exploration and mining community to share insights and take part in discussions that aim to enhance the positive impacts the industry can provide to communities and regions globally. “Almost every country in the world is represented at the PDAC Convention each year, including international governments and representatives who oversee mining operations,” says Mullan. “The IMMS is just one of the important platforms PDAC provides for governments to learn from one another and collaborate.” Some highlights to look forward to at PDAC 2019 Convention
include: PDAC is the leading voice of the mineral exploration and development community. With over 8 000 members around the world, PDAC’s mission is to promote a globally responsible, vibrant and sustainable minerals industry. As the trusted representative of the sector, PDAC encourages best practices in technical, operational, environmental, safety and social performance. More information about the #PDAC2019 Convention is available at www.pdac.ca/convention