In a bid to bring South Africa back to its roots by reinvigorating its research and development capability and rethinking the decades-old mining drill technology still in use today, the isidingoDRILL Design Challenge was launched in August 2018. It was launched as a means to encourage the rapid design and prototyping of a new and innovative rock-drill concepts to be used in South Africa’s gold and platinum deep-level mines, with the aim of launching a prototype as early as possible in 2019, CHANTELLE KOTZE writes. The isidingoDRILL Design Challenge is an open-innovation
challenge driven by mining
research and development hub, the Mandela Mining Precinct, in collaboration with the
Research Institute for Innovation and Sustainability (RIIS) – a boutique
innovation consulting firm focused on solving intractable business and social
problems. The
challenge was borne from the need for South Africa to maintain a competitive
advantage when mining its typically deep-level and narrow ore bodies by developing
new underground rock drills to do this. According to Mandela Mining Precinct co-director Alastair Macfarlane, the key aim of this challenge is to improve the efficiency, health and safety with which drilling occurs in the overall mining cycle. In addition, faster and more precise drilling may contribute towards lower fall of ground incidents, thus contributing to a safer mining environment, and less dilution, thereby lowering unit costs. Current drilling technology is not
energy efficient, as well as being heavy, noisy and prone to extreme vibration
which results in fatigue, noise induced hearing loss and white knuckle
syndrome. In addition, the conventional
configuration means that operators are exposed to the most dangerous conditions
of the mine, including fall of ground, seismicity, and gas blows. In
an attempt to improve the operational cost, as well as the health and safety of
rock drill operators, parties interested in taking part in the challenge were
asked to submit a concept design based on four key criteria, namely: Six
secondary criteria to be considered with the design of the drill is that it
must produce more thrust than current drills, must be designed to operate quietly
to be able to render noise levels that are less than 95 dB, must reduce
vibrations for the operator, must improve on current drilling speeds or
penetration rates, must be easily operable by a rock drill operator, and must
be human-centred in its design. “The three-phase challenge was designed to be as open as possible, with as few constraints as possible, to invite as wide a range of ideas as possible. It has also been designed in such a way as to drive designers to innovate and design rapidly, with the ultimate aim to not only introduce a new rock-drill design to South Africa, and global deep-level mining, but to open opportunities to enter the mining supply-chain network through an innovative process,” says RIIS executive Clen Cook. Phase
1 of the challenge, which ran for 30 days from 20 August 2018 to 18 September 2018,
received 11 concept designs which were evaluated by a panel of subject-matter
experts in the field, and three finalists were chosen to move through to the
second phase – the proof-of-concept development. The second phase of the challenge is being setup to run in early 2019, requiring the three finalists to develop a proof-of-concept to determine the technical and feasibility of the proposed solution. The proof of concept has to be hardware based and demonstrate validated support for the successful achievement of the challenge specifications. Finalists were given the
opportunity to partner with an existing equipment manufacturer from the Mining Equipment
Manufacturers of South Africa (MEMSA) cluster to take the concept The third and final phase will run later in 2019, and will require the three finalists to develop a prototype over 90 days, and will require the finalists to build a fully operational prototype which can be tested against real world environmental conditions. This stage is aimed at final validation of any updated or adapted technologies developed through the proof-of-concept phase. A total of 11
proposals for a concept design for a new rock-drill were submitted and included concept designs from Bertie Meyer, Conax Machine Solutions
and Pro-Hydraulics, Fermel, GST, Novatek, Karl Grimsehl, H I Mining, Isithelo
Mining Consultants and Services, HPE, Drill Rod Specialist, Shaw Equipment. These were evaluated by a
panel of judges with various expertise and skills sets in the area, who chose
the strongest submissions. The three winning entries were submitted by equipment
manufacturers Fermel, HPE and Novatek. Speaking at the finalist selection event held at the Mandela
Mining Precinct in Melville Johannesburg, CSIR Manager
for Mineral Resources, Navin Singh, who is also the co-director of the Mandela
Mining Precinct, said that the isidingoDRILL Design Challenge is fully aligned
to the South African Mining Extraction, Research, Development and Innovation
(SAMERDI) programmes looking at sustainability and longevity of current mines
and added that this challenge was the first of its kind in developing South
African solutions to a South African problem. Mcfarlane says that the
Mandela Mining Precinct and its project partner RIIS will assist in the
development of the grant funding documentation, which finalists will submit to public
funding agency, the Technology Innovation Agency, which serves as the key
institutional intervention to bridge the innovation chasm between research and
development. Moreover, the Mandela Mining
Precinct is currently underway with fairly advanced discussions and studies to
establish an industry test mine, which it plans to use to test the prototype
drill rig.