TSXV-listed East Africa Metals Inc. has executed a binding letter of intent with Tibet Huayu Mining Co. for the exploration, development and operation of its Ethiopian mining assets; the Terakimti, Mato Bula and Da Tambuk gold projects located in Ethiopia. Tibet
Huayu is a Chinese mining company with its headquarters in Lhasa, China and is
publicly listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. The letter of intent contemplates East Africa Metals transferring its equity interest in its Ethiopian subsidiary companies to Tibet Huayu and the parties entering into joint venture contracts for the purpose of development and operation of its Ethiopian mining assets. East
Africa Metals owns 70% of Harvest Mining PLC and 100% of Tigray Resources
Incorporated PLC. Harvest holds the Terakimti oxide gold mining license. Tigray
hosts the Mato Bula and Da Tambuk deposits (Adyabo Property) which are in the
final process of mine permitting. The
transaction defined in the binding letter of intent includes terms that in
exchange for 55% interest of Harvest and 70% interest in Tigray, Tibet Huayu
will: On
completion of the proposed transaction: East
Africa Metals will retain the mineral rights, and all exploration obligations
for the prospective targets not incorporated in the three mining licenses and
will give Tibet Huayu a right of first refusal of reasonable duration to
acquire its mineral resources. For
consideration of the future Ethiopian mineral resources negotiations will be
based on i) cash payment and ii) allocated % of post-tax profits of the new
mineral resources. Tibet
Huayu and East Africa Metals will use best efforts to finalise all conditions
precedent and finalise the definitive agreement. Andrew
Lee Smith, East Africa’s CEO states: “The
signing of the binding letter of intent with Tibet Huayu marks a significant
milestone for the company and the emerging Ethiopian mining sector. Our board
and management look forward to a partnership that will see mine development and
exploration agendas advancing parallel with the objective to establish mining
operations and grow the current resource base through diamond drilling”.