ASX/AIM-listed Aura Energy has signed a binding off-take agreement with London-based nuclear fuel trading company Curzon Uranium Trading for the sale of its uranium production from the Tiris uranium project in Mauritania. Mauritania – The
agreement with Curzon covers the sale of 800 000 pounds of uranium production
at fixed prices with a further 1.8 million pounds production available to
Curzon as option volumes at fixed and market pricing. The agreement is over a
seven-year period starting from the commencement of the mine and extendable
thereafter by mutual consent. The average price of the
agreement is above US$44/pound U₃O₈ compared with the current spot price of
around US$29/pound U₃O₈ and comfortably above Tiris' total operating cost. With Tiris' anticipated
production is approximately 1 million pounds U₃O₈ per annum and importantly the
fixed pricing volumes of this agreement account for between 15 to 30% of
production. This will ensure Aura Energy remains strongly exposed to the
potentially higher uranium prices Aura expects in the future. Aura has also
included the ability to claw back certain option volumes at its election should
the price warrant this action. “The completion of this agreement comes
after many months of negotiation and clearly pushes Aura ever more closely to
producer status. This agreement provides Aura with a strong level of certainty
over the revenue stream from the fixed prices and excellent upside via the
option volumes at market prices. With the price exceeding $44/pound for this
agreement Aura believes this is both constructive and prudent for a company
such as Aura early in its development phase. ‘With
the DFS nearing completion and initial construction anticipated this year, the
milestone that this agreement represents is undoubtedly significant. Also
significant is the fact that the parties have come to an agreement in which
retains its exposure the any upside the uranium price offers Aura over the life
of the Tiris project,” says Aura Energy executive chairman
Peter Reeve. Aura Energy is developing
its calcrete uranium project in Mauritania and is currently completing a
definitive feasibility study (DFS) on the project. The Tiris project is driven
by low operating and development capital costs and is expected to commence
construction shortly for an anticipated 2020 production start. Aura Energy was recently
granted an exploitation licence by the Mauritanian government to advance the
Tiris project.