WINNER: NORTHAM PLATINUM – BOOYSENDAL MERENSKY AND EXPANSION The Merensky Operation at Booysendal Platinum is the second main producer of the PGM Group of metals and is situated a north west of the main UG2 shaft. This operation takes on a totally different integrated mining
approach with the slogan of “Safe Production” linked with “I am Important” that
enhances individual participation and innovation on a daily bases in the true
sense of the meaning. Establishment of the infrastructure started with taking away the overburden as from 5 January 2015 with the two Declines broken away on the highwall on reef of the outcrop position. The Merensky operation is the flagship in terms of safety and
production due to the below focus areas: There are certain days that the management directly intervenes
with the teams for Visible Felt Engagement. There are five critical reports that must be discussed or
highlight with the oncoming shift, all significant hazards and associated risks
to be dealt with when entering for examination (geology, ventilation, escape
route, rock mechanics, blasting schedule and safety officer report) and
emphasis are on rock engineering board that points out hazards with associated
actions to address the risks. The focus and energy that Merensky team put on preparing and
maintaining world-class roadways and then also keeping their Services to
standard. Tyre life increases with a much more efficient ore tramming with
tipping points as close to the face as possible reducing the turnaround time of
tramming. Due
to the complex strata with low angle jointing and separation Booysendal
re-designed an exciting automated roof-bolter to remove the operator from the area
of support protecting the operator by and support canopy – all controls are
managed from inside a safe environment. After
a continuous relationship spanning over nine years, Northam appointed DRA
Global as the main EPCM contractor on the Booysendal mine project. DRA
was responsible for conducting relevant feasibility studies followed by the
initiation of the various project. In
the last quarter of 2015 construction of the Booysendal South Central Project
started and part of this scope was the early phases of the geographically
challenging main access road and the mammoth box cut. In
June 2016 board approval was given for the implementation phase of the project.
The scope includes two Upper Group 2 Reef (UG2) mining modules, a Merensky
module and a RopeCon which is the first of its kind in South Africa. The
Central Mining Complex consists of a 650 m long high wall (140 m wide box cut
and a 350 m wide terrace) and a maximum height of 32 m. The combined high wall
area of 16 000 m2 was stabilised. The terrace area is 650 m
long and a maximum width of 220 m. To
limit its impact on the environment, the Booysendal mine will make use of three
vertical fan stations to provide suitable ventilation over the life of mine.
These fans required a smaller footprint and have less effect on the
environment. The
power required will be supplied from the current North mine, construction of a
132 kV power line from North mine to South mine has commenced. This
will include a newly build substation at South mine able to provide power to
South mine and any future expansions at South mine. Jim Pooley: “A
significant project that embraces the latest control philosophy, focus on
environment and use of solar power. This highlights the thought that has been
put into the concept of the modern mine.” Marcus Courage: “This
mine has mitigated environmental impact and in addition, makes use of solar
energy.” FINALIST:
IVANPLATS The
Platreef project, which contains the Flatreef deposit, is a Tier One discovery
by Ivanhoe Mines’ geologists on the Northern Limb of South Africa’s Bushveld
Complex, the world’s premier platinum producing region. Ivanplats
plans to develop the Platreef mine in three phases namely an initial annual
rate of 4 Mtpa to establish an operating platform to support future expansions,
followed by a doubling of production to 8 Mtpa, and then a third expansion
phase to a steady-state 12 Mtpa. At
a projected production rate of 12 Mtpa, Platreef will be amongst the largest platinum-group
metals mines in the world. Aveng
Shafts & Underground, a division of Moolmans, was awarded the shaft sinking
contract for Platreef Shaft 1 in 2013. Despite
a few challenges at the start of the project, Moolmans has risen to the
challenge incorporating a change in methodology which removed employees from
the shaft bottom during lashing operations. The
team achieved a record monthly shaft-sinking rate of 54 m during March 2018.
The project remains on time and budget and is delivering an excellent safety
performance. The
shaft has now intersected reef at 782 m below surface – a massive milestone.
The development and construction of 750 Level Station was the final needed
before sinking to the planned final depth of 980 m. Jim Pooley: “A very significant project which could put Rustenburg out of business when it is commissioned! In addition, it has a good focus on safety while still achieving good advance rates in the shaft. It is on time and in budget which is good considering that they’re about 75% of the way to the ultimate shaft depth.”