Liebherr Mining Equipment Colmar SAS launched its B-versions of the R 9100 and R 9150 in January 2019. Both machines have proven to be reliable and productive partners in the mining industry over the years. With the newest upgrades, these hydraulic excavators will take a step forward to exceed the performance and reliability of other peers in this class, while lowering the cost per ton. The Liebherr R 9100 (first launched in 2010) and R 9150 (first launched
in 2012) are based on 60 years of Liebherr experience in the development and
construction of hydraulic excavators. Innovative technologies from the manufacturer’s large hydraulic
excavator programme, together with well-proven Liebherr components, make these
updated models ideal for the mining and construction industry’s needs. The R 9100 B and R 9150 B are equipped with the long-lasting and proven
Liebherr V12 diesel engines, specifically designed to withstand extreme outside
temperatures and high altitudes with low atmospheric pressure. Integrating the
latest engine management system, these machines are built for extreme
conditions. The Liebherr D9512 diesel engine is the latest generation of Liebherr diesel engines and is now USA/EPA Tier 4f compliant. It has been upgraded on many levels with an increased engine lifetime (SMU target of 15 000 hours) and new features that facilitate and improve engine maintenance. Furthermore, the new B-versions come with the exclusive EVO bucket solution with patented Liebherr design to maximise the loading capacity and ensure optimal penetration efficiency. Thanks to the contoured sidewalls and the augmented depth, the EVO backhoe bucket has now a capacity* of 7.5 m³ for the R 9100 B and 8.8 m³ - 9.6 m³ for the R 9150 B. The new buckets also make both excavators the perfect working partners in terms of shovel match for the Liebherr T 236 truck and all other articulated and rigid trucks in the 50 t to 100 t class. The R 9100 B’s and R 9150 B’s upper structure is accessible via a robust fixed ladder or 45° access stair in option and integrates one large central platform equipped with slip resistant surfaces. This new arrangement with wide catwalks facilitates maintenance and ensures comfort during all the operations. These excavators are fitted with ergonomic access for fast and safe maintenance. All service points are within reach from one side and at machine level. The modern and large cab provides ideal working conditions and optimal operator’s comfort. Mounted on silent blocks, the optimised cab design reduces vibrations. The new headliner limits noise pollution to provide a quiet working environment – a decrease of 2 dB in the cab compared to previous version. The new B-versions are serially equipped with GSM data transmission
functionalities to collect operating parameters, error codes and machine
faults. The data is accessible through the Liebherr-Mining Data platform (LMD)
on which the user can generate customized reports to track and analyse machine
data. The accurate information collected through the connectivity kit is
recorded in a worldwide database and enters a systematic assessment and
resolution process to continuously improve existing and new products and
components. Liebherr‘s vertical integration practice means the company can design
and build components that meet the specific operational requirements of both
the customer and mine site. Genuine Liebherr components ensure the best
interaction within the machine to encourage optimal performance. During the development of the B-series, several of those genuine
Liebherr components, like the swing pump, went through an upgrade themselves to
provide optimal reliability, superior productivity and a longer service life.: