Moroccan focused potash development company Emmerson Plc has
appointed Global Potash Solutions’ Don Larmour as a consultant on metallurgy
and processing for its Khemisset potash project feasibility study which is
expected to commence in the first half of 2019. Morocco - Emmerson recently released a scoping study for Khemisset which indicates it has the potential to be among the lowest capital cost and highest margin potash projects in the world. As a result, its economics are compelling with forecasted
EBITDA margins in excess of 60% and a post-tax NPV10 of over US$1.1 billion
based on industry expert price forecasts. Larmour is widely considered to be one of the foremost
experts in the crystallisation processing of potash ores owing to his 38 years’
experience in potash processing including 28 years spent with Potash
Corporation of Saskatchewan as its key process engineer where he was involved
with process and plant design, and operations management. Lamour’s role will be to advise on all aspects of the
upcoming metallurgical test work programme and to provide the benefit of his experience
in the process flow design which will be included in the feasibility study. Having an expert of Larmour’s calibre engaged is a
significant step towards construction of the Khemisset potash project. As part of the appointment process, Lamour conducted a detailed review of the scoping study work completed by processing consultant, Ercosplan. The results of this review included: 3. Potential changes to the brine management strategy to ensure brine      ponds are appropriately sized and to reduce site environmental waste production 4. Identification of a number of areas for focus in the next, more detailed, design phase to further de-risk the project. Hayden Locke, CEO of Emmerson, comments: “Don is one of the most experienced potash processing experts
globally, with extensive experience in crystallisation plant design and
operation. We are delighted he is available to provide us with his expertise in
this pivotal time for the company, and his desire to work on the Khemisset project
reinforces our view that it is a potentially world class potash project.” “Through Don’s review, we have identified a number of areas
which require attention to further de-risk the project and, perhaps more
importantly, a number of areas where we think significant positive gains can be
achieved, reducing both capital and operating costs, especially on the energy
consumption side.”