Data management is not a new concept. Most organisations have been recording some form of data for decades, whether manually or electronically. In the mining sector for instance, volumes of statistical information are obtained on everything from geotechnical data right down to individual parts in a process plant. Traditionally, this data has been stored as hard copies often kept in containers or off-site storage facilities, although more progressive companies are maintaining an electronic database and using data to streamline their operations and work more effectively. With the rapid development of new technology and the advent of the ‘Fourth Industrial Revolution’ which is disrupting traditional processes and the way we live and work, data is becoming a hot commodity. The challenge lies not in obtaining the data, but how to use it to its maximum potential to add real value to customers and organisations, particularly in a technologically stagnant sector such as mining. For a company like WorleyParsons that provides engineering solutions to the world’s energy and resources challenges, harnessing the power of data is vital for the organisation and its customers to prosper in the new digital age. With a long history of innovation, WorleyParsons has already been active in this space for a number of years and has established a strong digital reputation. In South Africa, the project delivery company has positioned
itself at the forefront of mining technology by developing various leading-edge
data management tools, such as the Stepwise process that makes it possible to expediently
create option analyses to assist customers and prospective funders in making
strategic investment decisions, and integrated design project tools to create a
living digital twin of a facility that can reduce risk and improve productivity
on a project. Driven by teams of technical experts across the global
organisation who have the unique advantage of also having years of EPCM
experience, WorleyParsons’ data management solutions are aimed at addressing
the ongoing challenges that energy and resources customers continue to face:
how to increase productivity, reduce maintenance and operation costs, and
improve safety. Through collaboration and sharing of digital knowledge across WorleyParsons’ multinational regions, the company’s global digital teams are aligning to create the most innovative solutions to address these challenges. This digital capability is being embedded in WorleyParsons’ day-to-day working, and the company is in the process of creating global service lines to make the digital capability available throughout its locations. “The world is changing at a rapid pace. Organisations across
the globe have a strategic objective to ‘go digital’ or be at risk of becoming
obsolete, but few know how to use technology to add real value to their
operations,” says Denver Dreyer, CEO of WorleyParsons RSA. “WorleyParsons has the knowledge and expertise to offer a roadmap to help our customers navigate what is unfamiliar territory for many. ‘Going digital’ is very different to the traditional way of doing work, particularly in the mining sector which has seen very little change in mining methods in decades. "It requires a change in mindset of the entire project team, including the customers’ side, right down to mine personnel. Our customers’ teams must be aligned with ours to embrace technology and understand the immense benefits of it.” Dreyer notes that it is vital to partner with a service
provider that has industry experience as well as the technical expertise. Russell
Du Plessis, BIM manager for WorleyParsons RSA, concurs. “In the mining sector, we’re seeing companies approach third party providers to create 3D models of projects. While this may appear impressive on the surface, the picture on the screen is not the drawcard – it’s the underlying data that is of value, which is accumulated by industry experts over a long period of time. "What really makes virtual reality models powerful is the integrated data that makes it possible to provide design accuracy, look pre-emptively forward, and create a scenario plan for a project. "The objective is to deliver an intelligent and integrated project scope that runs from the design phase right through to construction. This can only be achieved by utilising data centric integrated design principles combined with industry knowledge. “WorleyParsons draws on data-centric design technology that utilises rapid prototyping, and other innovative processes such as Building Information Modelling (BIM) to create a sophisticated digital project design platform and prepare for project execution as efficiently and cost effectively as possible. "BIM augments the three primary spatial dimensions of width, height and depth with 4D, 5D and 7D technology, allowing the entire project team to visualise project objectives as never before, greatly improving operational efficiency in a dynamic time and cost-saving environment,” explains Du Plessis. Dreyer comments that although it will take time for the South
African mining sector to fully realise the benefits of digital transformation,
the company intends to mainstream digitisation across its larger projects.
WorleyParsons RSA is currently collaborating with one of its international
counterparts to develop a ground-breaking ‘intelligent’ mine for a major mining
client, which is set to be one of the world’s most technologically advanced
mines. “We have people who understand data management and the
application of data in an operational context, and can develop digital design
techniques from concept development to detailed design, implement data
analytics to plant maintenance and operations to improve maintenance and plant
availability, and apply digital processes and smart tools through the design,
development and implementation phases. With this capability, we can develop the
intelligent mine concept into a full lifecycle service offering,” he says. “We are continuously adapting as changes in technology occur.
Adaptive companies are the ones that will survive and thrive in a digital
world, and our aim is to help our customers navigate this digital journey,” concludes
Dreyer.