Poorly researched, one-sided reports by activists are undermining the relationships between mining companies and their host communities in Zambia says First Quantum Minerals or FQM. A recent flurry of pamphlets by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) appears to be calculated to destabilise the trust built up with local people, says the company, which operates the Kansanshi mine in Solwezi and Sentinel mine at Kalumbila. “It is entirely right and proper that mines are open to
scrutiny and held accountable for their actions, and indeed First Quantum goes
to great lengths to ensure it is transparent in its corporate operations and
sustainability programmes,” said FQM country manager General Kingsley Chinkuli. “What is more concerning are NGOs – often backed by foreign
donors and with little understanding of the issues – that make spurious claims
without robust evidence-based research or sound methodologies.” Such reports are often based on a few days on the ground
conducting qualitative “interviews” with an unrepresentative and statistically
invalid sample of people. It is often the handful of people with an “axe to
grind” that are most vocal and more likely to be quoted by the researchers, he
said. “These poorly researched reports fuel unrest, distort the
views of the majority of local people, and give a disproportionate profile to a
small number of people. They risk destabilising the relationships we have built
up with communities around our mines over a long period of time,” added Chinkuli,
who called for such studies to be executed in a more academically rigorous
manner and overseen by a peer-review system that enhances understanding of the
subject. Too often such reports are designed to attract
sensationalist headlines and secure additional funding rounds from donors, he
added. In a number of instances, the company has not been afforded
a right to reply to claims; offers of site visits ad meetings have been
declined, been requested with too little notice, or been conducted without full
disclosure of the accusations being levelled against the company, he explained. One recent example involved a foreign-funded report
containing a litany of factual errors and unsubstantiated claims about the
Kansanshi mine, with the sweeping statement: “There is clear resistance from
the company to invest in sustainable CSR”. In fact, in addition to the US$3.3 billion paid by the mine
in taxes, employment of 5 140 direct staff and a similar number of indirect
workers, Kansanshi Mining Plc has spent S$30 million on direct community
support through the Kansanshi Foundation since 2005. $4.79 million was spent in
2018 alone. Highlights in 2018 include: