TSX/NYSE-listed Goldcorp has announced the three finalists selected to pitch to the distinguished panel of judges at the #DisruptMining 2019 live finale. These innovative companies will present their technologies, which include a new drilling approach that can unlock the value in narrow vein deposits; a unique way of training artificial intelligence to autonomously operate a mineral processing facility; and an IoT application that increases the intelligence of belt conveyors used to transport material at mine sites. Highlights:The three finalists selected to pitch their disruptive ideas and technologies at #DisruptMining are: "#DisruptMining continues to represent the best of innovation in the mining industry. These finalists demonstrate break-through thinking and help build digital momentum in mining. "The industry needs to help accelerate the development of these kinds of technologies," says Todd White, Goldcorp COO and Executive Vice President of Operations. "We're thrilled to welcome each of them to the #DisruptMining community and look forward to learning more about each of these applications." After a technical review by a group from the University of British Columbia, shortlisted submissions were reviewed by senior Goldcorp representatives to determine semi-finalists and finalists for #DisruptMining. The three finalists pitching their disruptive technology to the distinguished panel of judges are: Deciding the fate of the three finalists will be Ian Telfer, Chair of Goldcorp and acclaimed mining industry titan; Katie Valentine, Partner at KPMG Australia and Global Head of Mining Consulting; Sue Paish, CEO of Canada's Digital Technology Supercluster; Jacob Yeung, University of British Columbia student and #DisruptMining UBC Captain; and returning #DisruptMining judge Wal van Lierop, President & CEO, Chrysalix Venture Capital. Co-hosted by KPMG, the #DisruptMining live finale will take place on Sunday, March 3, 2019 at the Rebel Entertainment Complex in Toronto during the Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada (PDAC) convention. Each finalist will present a short pitch video followed by a Q&A with the judges, in front of a live audience of nearly 600 people, demonstrating how their concept or technology has the potential to #DisruptMining. Goldcorp has committed the opportunity to negotiate for $1 million* toward a proof of concept or direct investment in the winning technology. "KPMG is thrilled to co-host this industry defining event. #DisruptMining is driving mining innovation to new levels and putting Canada on the global stage in this rapidly changing industry. #DisruptMining is a great example of the convergence between exponential technology and the natural resources sector. "This convergence is the focus of KPMG's new Ignition Centre and our increased investment in helping clients with digital transformation," said Armughan Ahmad, President & Managing Partner, KPMG Digital and Technology.