After various projects have demonstrated the value of renewables for reducing diesel, heavy fuel oil and gas consumption, mining companies can now benefit from the significant cost reduction potential that renewable energy holds, according to a newreport by THEnergy and Voltalia. In the last
few years, more and more mining companies have adopted wind and solar systems to
reduce their energy costs at remote off-grid mines. In this first phase, the
initial focus was on the integration capabilities as miners were afraid that
adding intermittent renewables such as solar and wind could affect the
reliability of power supply and even lead to production losses. In various microgrid applications, renewables combined with diesel, heavy fuel oil, or gas have proven to provide reliable power supply to remote mines. For almost
all mines, the integration of renewables will have a positive impact on their
energy cost position. Mining companies do not have to invest their own money;
independent power providers (IPPs) invest in the renewable energy
infrastructure and sell electricity to mines through power purchase agreements
(PPAs). “This
second market phase is characterised by price competition”, explains Thomas
Hillig, MD of boutique renewable energy consultancy THEnergy. “With the support
of a leading renewable energy player, the new report analyses how IPPs can
offer extremely competitive PPAs to remote miners.” Large IPPs
take advantage of economies of scale on components for solar and wind power
plants not only for remote mining projects but also for much bigger
grid-connected plants. Market leaders have managed to optimise the planning and
construction processes substantially. However, conducting projects in remote
locations, especially in Africa, requires an extended experience.  Amongst the challenges of undertaking projects
in Africa is financing, which requires an excellent relationship with local and
international banks. Cost optimisation does not necessarily mean minimising capex but rather focusing on the total lifetime of the project and including O&M. It is also important to take the interplay of the different energy sources into consideration. Not every kWh of solar and wind energy generated means equivalent fossil fuel savings. When gensets run at suboptimal loads, they lose efficiency and require additional maintenance. “During the last 14 years, we have gained experience
in renewable energy projects including solar-diesel hybrid microgrids, projects
in remote locations and in developing countries”, points out Alexis Goybet, head
of hybrid solutions at international renewable energy producer Voltalia. “Our experience adds up to our
economies of scale in procurement and translates into significant overall cost-reductions in the range of 20-30%
in comparison to new market entrants.” These
overall cost reductions will make solar and wind energy extremely attractive
for many mines. The number of remote mines that add renewables to diesel, heavy
fuel oil or gas is expected to grow quickly all over Africa.