The current mining environment is becoming increasingly complex. Balancing safety, productivity and human resources requires real time reporting, and a constant interpretation of the information to improve operational efficiencies. Increasingly, mines are relying on big data in order to monitor performance across all their activities. This is to ensure that every step in the operation of a mine is running optimally and generating maximum return on investment. A well managed maintenance programme, should be an important part of the critical data feeding back to the overall performance of any mining operation. For example, a well implemented tyre management programme on a mine should give accurate data regarding the projections and budgets required for new tyre purchases. This starts with collecting accurate data regarding tyre pressures, tread wear, load studies, tyre selection and other factors that contribute towards the overall tyre life. Once you have accurate data, these parameters can be tweaked to improve tyre life and more actively manage tyre budgets. Specialised tyre repair materials and industrial rubber manufacturer Chemvulc’s biggest drive is to assist clients in ensuring they are well equipped to extend the tyre life of their fleet. This includes having a well equipped tyre repair bay for the tyres and well trained operators. When it comes to big fleets of haul trucks and ADTs, the cost savings are enormous. When Chemvulc assisted a DRC mining client implement a tyre repair program, 400 repairable tyres were put back into service over a year, resulting in cost savings of over US$3 million. A similar approach can be adopted when it comes to a conveyor belt maintenance programme, as preventative maintenance is critical to minimising unplanned shutdowns and extending the life of the belt. This requires regular monitoring and reporting. According to business development director Brendan van Niekerk, being able to correctly use Chemvulc’s products has become a top priority for the company. As a result, Chemvulc plans to introduce new online platforms for accessing its technical support and information on products as well as the company’s learning programmes online. “With Chemvulc’s variety of products for different applications, the uses of technology to enhance clients’knowledge through online programmes and easy access to technical support will almost immediately benefit our clients, especially now that our products are being used in a growing number of countries.” Brendan highlights that the move towards automation doesn’t mean that the need for maintenance and cost savings disappears. Instead it requires programmes implemented for maintenance to have a measurable cost benefit. “A good system should always have the data to support the work done on any maintenance programme, showing real results.” Technology should be used to make informed decisions about a number of operations, but it cannot replace good practice and the right systems. Technology should augment maintenance functions, like a mining tyre repair programme or a belt maintenance programme, that requires knowledgeable and well trained people, he explains. The expanding range of industrial application rubber for mining and industry covers hot and cold conveyor splicing products, rubber to metal bonding, rubber sheeting and specialised adhesives and cements. “We are dedicated to supplying the best quality materials for the application,” says Brendan. The company will be launching new products in conveyor belting products and ultra large tyre repair, especially at a time where global supplies of large OTR tyres are coming under strain. In addition, the company will launch belt splicing and repair products in 2019. “To assist mining on the African continent, our teams will be on hand to assist our clients on the ground with technical support. "Chemvulc is looking at a number of new products for the African Market in 2019. "We believe these will be readily available and cost effective alternatives to having to source products in from Europe or US, and tailored to the African mining environment.”