Lycopodium Minerals recently celebrated 25 years of
successful mineral process plant design and construction. The company’s Cape
Town and Johannesburg based subsidiary company has a focus on the African
continent, and in particular has aligned its’ approach to mining industry
imperatives. “Once considered a ‘dirty’ business, mining in Africa (along
with global trends) has transitioned towards the use of technology and
innovation to improve safety, increase mineral recoveries and reduce costs,”
says Lycopodium ADP MD Steve Burks. “Lycopodium Minerals has consequently stepped up to
the ‘technology plate’ – specifically regarding the use of mineral
pre-concentration approaches which improve the grade and reduce the mass of
material in the feed to downstream high-cost process steps, such as grinding,
flotation and leaching, by rejecting gangue material,” he continues. Differences between the valuable minerals and the gangue
can be exploited to separate them based on physical properties and processes
such as: Depending on the nature of the ore being processed,
and the downstream flowsheet, the benefits of pre-concentration can be: Pre-concentration can also be linked to ore type
characterisation, blasting versus milling optimisation, screening and other
size classification methods post milling in order to ensure that downstream
processing of the reduced mass of material is also more efficient and effective “For example, multi-stage milling and flotation can be
applied where the grind size and flotation conditions can be optimised in each
stage to recover both coarse fast-floating particles followed by a regrind
stage to liberate fine grains locked in gangue matrix. In this way a
concentrate acceptable as smelter feed can be produced at high recovery and
grade, for example with PGM ores.” Ore sorting has been practised for many years but was
generally labour intensive or applicable only to high value products, such as
diamonds. More recently, advances in technology have allowed Lycopodium to
exploit differences in other properties of ore. Depending on the specific technology and the nature of
the sensor and deflection system, it is now often possible to handle very high
feed-rates of bulk commodities such as iron ore, and in some cases the entire
bulk stream can be processed instead of having to remove fines before the
pre-concentration step. Depending on the mineral composition of the stream, a
sensor located under an in-pit conveyor utilising differences in magnetic
resonance (MR) properties can detect parcels of mining dilution or low-grade
ore as small as one tonne and activate a deflector to reject the parcel before
it is processed any further. Lycopodium can easily incorporate MR sorting into
primary crusher product conveying systems. Sorting on the basis of colour (such as white
magnesite) or X-Ray fluorescence (diamonds) relies on the feed being closely
sized, clean and well presented, so that individual rocks/particles can be
deflected by an air blast after being detected by a sensor. Again, Lycopodium
can provide the necessary feed preparation and conveying systems for both
products and rejects. Density differences can be exploited in a variety of
methods and Lycopodium has engineered many of them. For coarser size fractions,
dense medium separation (DMS) using magnetite or ferrosilicon suspensions is
well known for ferrous ores (iron and manganese), base metals (copper and PGM
minerals), diamondiferous ores and indeed any ores in which there is an
appreciable density difference from the gangue at particles over about 1 mm in
diameter. Coarse particle flotation technology has been
developed recently that will allow particles up to 1 mm, having as little as 1%
hydrophobic surface area, to be floated effectively. This opens a possibility
in the flowsheet in which a high pressure grinding rolls (HPGR) circuit
produces a 1 mm top size feed to the coarse flotation plant. A relatively low
grade rougher concentrate is produced, with high recovery of values, after
which only the concentrate needs to be reground for further upgrading and
cleaning to final product specifications. The potential savings in capital cost
and energy consumption are most attractive. “Lycopodium has been working on options to optimise
the grinding circuit for a copper-gold processing plant using coarse particle
flotation cells to produce a coarse concentrate for regrinding, and a
‘throw-away’ tail with greatly reduced grinding energy use.” Lycopodium is an Australian headquartered
international engineering and project management group servicing the global
mineral resource sector with mineral processing, mine infrastructure, rail and
maintenance planning expertise. The company has been operating within the
resources sector for over 25 years and has offices in Cape Town, Johannesburg,
Perth, Brisbane, Manila and Toronto.