Conserving large tracts of land for biodiversity conservation and research is one of the important ways that the De Beers Group ensures its overall impact on the environment is positive. Its properties near Kimberley in the Northern Cape and near its Venetia Mine in Limpopo Province, together with conservation areas at both the major diamond mines managed by Debswana in Botswana, make up about 200,000 ha that are dedicated to biodiversity conservation and research. For
every hectare of land used for mining by the De Beers Group, six ha are
dedicated to the conservation of nature. This
approach is driven by De Beers Group’s objective to have no net loss of
significant biodiversity, an aim which is now strengthened by its major
shareholder Anglo American committing to have a net positive impact on
biodiversity. Working
proactively with a network of conservation and research partners, including
academic institutions and NGOs, De Beers supports a range of research projects
that make a broad environmental contribution. In
one of its most recent initiatives, De Beers Group will transport 200 elephants
across 1 500 km from its Venetia Limpopo Nature Reserve (VLNR) in South Africa
to Mozambique. The
operation, one of the largest elephant translocations ever recorded in South
Africa, is part of a major conservation initiative to protect the welfare of
wildlife in South Africa and help restore Mozambique’s elephant population. For
the first phase of the project, approximately 60 elephants were transported in
July and August 2018 from the VLNR to Zinave National Park in central
Mozambique. The
remaining elephants will be moved to conservation areas that hold sufficient
elephant carrying capacity within Mozambique from next year. De
Beers Group is partnering with Peace Parks Foundation, a leading not-for-profit
organisation focused on the preservation of large functional cross-border
ecosystems, to carry out the initiative. Peace
Parks Foundation will assist De Beers Group with the translocation, ensuring the
elephants’ social groups aren’t disturbed and that they flourish in their new
habitat through ongoing monitoring of their wellbeing and enhanced protection
efforts. Covering
32 000 ha and established in the early 1990s, the VLNR can accommodate around
60 elephants without adverse impacts on the surrounding ecosystem. As
part of its investment in the elephant translocation initiative, De Beers Group
is also providing Peace Parks Foundation with US$500 000 over five years
towards anti-poaching support measures, which will include the hiring and
training of new park rangers, and the opening of new access roads to increase
patrol coverage. Marcus Courage: “One of
the largest elephant translocations - in partnership with Peace Parks – and the
seamless migration of wildlife across the great Limpopo Transfrontier area is
astounding.” Jim Pooley: “This is
a really impressive submission; De Beers is putting significant resources into
conservation to counter the impact of their mining operations using a 6 to 1
conservation to mining land area ratio. I might buy my wife another diamond
now!!” Migodi
Resources is an artisanal small-scale gold mining (ASGM) company based in
Mombwo, Kericho County, Kenya. The
company is currently using a mercury free gold extraction processes which is
cheap and easily adaptable by other ASGM groups in the country as an advocacy
approach to try to eliminate the use of mercury by ASGM miners in Kenya – as
well as reduce the health and economic impacts resulting from exposure to the
toxic element. This
enables a three-tier benefit: direct advantage to miner’s health, mining
economics and environmental safety. Some
of the company’s achievements include: Marcus Courage:
“Non-mercury gold extraction and transfer of knowledge and experience are
highlights of this submission.” Jim Pooley: “This is
an impressive submission featuring a local Kenyan being entrepreneurial and
innovative while producing gold and limiting the impact on the environment and
workers’ health. And all this while he makes money, Africa needs more people
like this.” CoalTech,
under the company name of Coal Agglomeration South Africa in South Africa, has
developed a unique coal agglomeration technology that is providing a
commercially viable means to clean up the environmental hazard which is caused
by stockpiles of coal fines. With
over 30 Bt of coal fine stockpiles in the world, CoalTech aims to provide solution
to reduce this environmental problem while concurrently providing a profitable
solution not for CoalTech, but to the mining industry by reducing wastage and
lowering production costs. After
five years of research and development, the company has mastered the coal
agglomeration process which effectively binds the coal fines and converts them
into coal pellets while retaining their original calorific value (CV) and
strength. Its
process converts coal waste to a source of energy that has been proven and has
passed stringent testing by Bureau Veritas. With
the successful commissioning of a 1 000 tpm plant prototype in early 2013,
Coaltech has constructed a 10 000 tpm industrial scale plant in South Africa,
which will produce bagged pellets used by stoves which are not only used for
cooking but also for heating and for powering local homes. In addition to our commitment to provide an economically viable source of energy to local homes in South Africa, CoalTech will be creating a dedicated fund to support the local community as part of its continued CSR initiatives. In
addition to increasing coal production in South Africa, CoalTech will be
developing multiple industrial scale plants in markets of Poland, Germany,
Russia, Pakistan and India. With
a minimum of six plants planned over the next five years, CoalTech intends to
create direct employment for over 300 people and process over 1.5 Mt of coal
fines. Jim Pooley:
“Innovative technology to convert coal fines waste into a saleable commodity
and cleaning the environment while making money.  We need more of this.” Rainbow
Rare Earths’ focus is the Gakara project in Burundi, one of the highest in situ
vein grade (47%-67% Total Rare Earth Oxide) rare earths projects globally and
the only African producer. The
average rare earth project grade is between 1 - 3%, which means that the
resource extraction will produce excessive amount of waste material, whilst at
Gakara veins are extracted by manual mining from free digging host rock – no
blasting or explosives is required, and the environmental impact is therefore
minimal. Following
the extraction, the processing of the raw material is done a short distance
away at the Kabezi plat, where simple physical gravity separation technique is
used to separate of minerals from waste rock and produce high-grade concentrate. No
complicated or hazardous chemicals are required to retrieve the concentrate. The
company plans to open another mining area at the end of this year where the
same kind of low-impact, environmentally friendly technique will be used. Not
only is the mining done responsibly and with minimal impact to environment, but
the extracted resources are used in green technologies that help to reduce the
global carbon footprint. Jim Pooley: “Very small-scale mining with limited environmental impact in mining operations and use of local resources.”