Minopex,
a leading specialist in the field of process plant operations and maintenance
(O&M), recently began rolling out a new digitally-enhanced management
information system at its operating sites. Originated within sister company
DRA, the system is called MOMS (Mine Operating
Management System) and has been designed to meet the needs of a digitally
evolving industry.  MOMS collects data from all sources on a mine or metallurgical plant,
including ERP systems, PLCs, SCADAs, laboratory management systems and
maintenance management systems. It stores this big data and allows the user to
access information in a format which results in greater user efficiency and
fewer errors in information outlay. According to Executive Vice President and MD at Minopex, James Smith, it is important that the mining industry becomes more technology driven in order to deal with current and future challenges. Hence, the need to develop a technologically advance management information system. “Cost pressures on
operations today are significant and tight margins have become the norm. For
example, the platinum industry is currently receiving approximately half the
revenue per ounce that it did a decade ago,” he says. “There is also a looming
gap in skilled, experienced artisans and operators, fuelled by the fact that
mining is not seen as an attractive career in the modern world. To stay in
business, the industry must work smarter with a smaller skills pool. Technology
can bridge this gap, guiding less-experienced operators to perform at a higher
level, by simplifying complex planning and decision-making processes through
automated computations and predictive capabilities.” Smith notes that MOMS
provides a critical platform for digital
transformation in ensuring future readiness as predictive capabilities evolve.  “With each roll out there are significant new
developments as different clients want to focus on different areas. This reciprocal
learning is very important to the continuous improvement of the MOMS offering,”
he states. In addition to the above, Minopex Technical Systems also aims to
improve the system through research and development that focusses on
improvements and optimisation of production, inventory and maintenance operations. Furthermore, forecasting and
prediction is a major focus as these are stepping stones for digital
technologies to enhance prescriptive operations. Minopex Technical Systems
collaborates with outside companies to create practical digital solutions for
its clients. The company also focusses on digital integration of systems on its
operating sites, with the focus on achieving a paperless, seamless transfer of
digital data that is free of transcription errors. According to Smith, digital
technologies are in abundance and are becoming more affordable as increased
commercialisation and competition drive down costs.  “Minopex, through market scanning, keeps up
with the trends. This ensures that selected technologies have practical
applications that will not only benefit current business operations, but also
lay the platform for future technology readiness,” he adds. Smith further explains that the
company works closely with DRA to ensure digital solutions developed in the
project engineering and construction world are leveraged to enhance Minopex
O&M functions. Two of these areas currently in development are mine resource
optimisation and build information modelling. Mine resource optimisation will
enhance the mine planning function and feed information
to the process plant operations ahead of time. For example, predictions of
harder feed material causing lower milling rates and higher reagent consumption
will allow a plant’s operations management to improve production planning and
be prepared for the feed material changes. Build Information Modelling (BIM) is a digital
representation of physical and functional characteristics of a facility. It is
a shared knowledge resource on information about a facility, forming
a reliable basis for decisions during its lifecycle. It allows for further
expansion where the model forms the database and is used during the build, commissioning,
training (VR models), operations and maintenance phases, hence making data
storage and retrieval quick and accurate. The future aim is to link the BIMs
information to an operating plant as the basis for the asset maintenance system. The
introduction of MOMS allows Minopex to continue to deliver on its promise to clients
which is ‘Excellence in minerals processing operations’. “Deployment
of digital solutions is just one of our initiatives to further enhance our
leading systems and skills base in the plant operations field,” states Smith. “We
will continue to invest in our process and maintenance teams to be able to
provide the leading skills set in the industry.” While
full plant O&M remains its core offering, the company is also developing
solutions for it clients in various stages of the project lifecycle. This
includes operational readiness, plant audit and plant optimisation services.
Minopex is also developing innovative solutions for smaller plants along a build-own-operate
basis. Looking
ahead to 2019, Smith says that Minopex will continue to focus on building its
footprint in the African region, particularly looking at opportunities in Zambia,
DRC and Zimbabwe. “We
are also investing in our Middle East and North Africa presence where we have
had significant successes over the last few years. In 2019, we will also enter
West Africa in a more meaningful way, a region we have traditionally not had an
O&M presence,” he concludes.