"The DRC is just too important a jurisdiction from a resource volume and grade quality perspective for any serious player in the global mining sector to ignore"  Exclusive interview with Peter  von Klemperer, the Head of Mining and  Metals at the Standard Bank Group,  the Diamond Plus sponsor at the 2019  DRC Mining Week from 19-21 June in  Lubumbashi. Why has Standard Bank chosen to partner with DRC Mining Week again in  2019? What was the bank’s experience in 2018, and what is the bank  planning for 2019?Mining is an extremely important sector  for the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Standard Bank supports a large number of resources clients in the mining sector in the DRC. DRC Mining Week provides Standard Bank with an important platform to engage with clients and key stakeholders in the DRC’s resources sector. Can we talk about Standard Bank’s activities in the DRC? There is a proud history there. Standard  Bank has been involved in the DRC for over 20 years, funding operations  and managing banking for a range of clients, from established  developed-world players to newer Chinese clients. Standard Bank has  developed a broad client ecosystem in the DRC, including both mining and  resources players as well as the wider services, supplier and support  industries associated with the country’s diverse and rich resource  endowment. Beyond Standard Bank’s developed resources sector expertise,  the banks presence and capability in the country plays a critical role  in supporting all our clients' effect their day-to-day banking and  transaction needs on the ground in the DRC. Combined with Standard  Bank’s global presence and capability, this is especially significant  for large foreign investors as Standard Bank is also equipped to manage  their daily transaction flow in the DRC from anywhere in the world. Are there any mining projects that your organisation is involved with that you are particularly excited about? The  DRC is blessed with large volumes of high-quality grades across a range  of strategically and commercially important resources. Standard Bank  remains excited about the opportunities and prospects offered by this  important mining investment destination and key global resources  supplier. What are the main challenges facing Africa’s mining sector? And the DRC in particular? The  mining sector in the DRC faces the same challenges as the sector  globally, namely; cost containment pressures in a volatile commodity  price market. Policy clarity, certainty and predictability are also a  challenge for the industry the world over. Those destinations able to  provide long-term policy predictability and efficient implementation  have been more successful at sustaining and growing capital investment  over time. What is your message to prospective investors about the opportunities in the DRC mining sector?The DRC is just too important a jurisdiction from a resource volume and  grade quality perspective for any serious player in the global mining  sector to ignore. What is your vision for the sector?Through  the consistent application of clear and rational mining policy, the DRC  has the potential to become the world’s largest copper producer. This  would be a game changer for the economy, placing the DRC in a position  to transform into a middle-income country by 2050.  How important is Lubumbashi as a mining hub for the sector, providing an example for the rest of the country? Lubumbashi  has the great advantage of being; close to the DRC’s main copper  assets, close to the border enabling ease of export, as well as being  located on a major regional water way. Much of Lubumbashi’s strategic  importance derives from its geographic position as gateway to the DRC’s  copper belt and hub of the DRC’s global copper production and export  industry. Lubumbashi demonstrates the importance of supporting global  connectivity that enables exports through regionally-integrated  infrastructure linking strategic assets to global markets. What are you most looking forward to at DRC Mining Week? How important is the forum on the global mining calendar?DRC  Mining Week is an important platform for Standard Bank to engage with  both existing and potentially, new clients. The conference is important  from a global perspective as it also brings policy makers together with  investors which remains key in unlocking the DRC’s full resources  potential.  What will Standard Bank’s message be at the event in 2019?From  an investment funding perspective Standard Bank combines global capital  reach and world-leading structuring expertise with a developed African  balance sheet leveraged by a strong local presence, deep experience and  insight, and developed capability within the DRC.  The unique universal  banking ecosystem that Standard Bank has developed on the ground in the  DRC also positions Standard Bank’s Transactional Products and Services  and Global Markets teams to support client’s operational business inside  the country. This dual global and local capability unites global  financial access with on-the-ground execution in a capital-importing  sector dependant for earnings upon efficient local production and global  export.