“The DRC is just too important a jurisdiction from a resource volume and grade quality perspective for any serious player in the global mining sector to ignore” says Peter von Klemperer, the Head of Mining and Metals at the Standard Bank Group, and the exclusive Diamond Plus sponsor at the DRC Mining Week that returns to Lubumbashi from 19-21 June this year. He adds: “Standard Bank supports a large number of resources clients in the mining sector in the DRC and DRC Mining Week provides us with an important platform to engage with clients and key stakeholders in the DRC’s resources sector. "Standard Bank has been involved in the DRC for over 20 years, funding operations and managing banking for a range of clients, from established developed-world players to newer Chinese clients.” “The business case for DRC’s mining sector remains compelling” says DRC Mining Week event director Elodie Delagneau, “for example, the demand for battery metals such as lithium and cobalt is on the rise and the country’s low production costs, the average cost of producing cobalt in DRC is 30% lower than the rest of the world, allows miners to absorb the additional higher royalty payments introduced in the new Mining Code.” “Furthermore,” she continues, “challenges always present opportunities, with the DRC mining sector’s energy deficit creating a huge gap to fill for the right power solution providers.” According to Miss Delagneau, “we are so proud of
the long-running, award-winning and flagship expo and conference that DRC Mining Week has become. We invite the
sector to join us in celebrating 15 years as a reliable partner that has grown with the
industry and established itself as the only mining platform for the whole
industry in the heart of the Copperbelt.” More than 3500 international mining experts and local stakeholders from more than 50 countries are expected to attend. The event will feature a strategic high-level conference again that will focus on challenges and developments in the industry including a special power focus day, finance options for mining houses, the Mining Code, looking to the future of the industry, the upskilling of local mining talent, private and public partnerships as well as project updates. The in- and outside expo areas keep growing every year and in 2019 will feature more than 180 suppliers, including country pavilions from at least five countries, with Zimbabawe already confirmed and others in the final stages of confirmation. Of the more than 80 mining and exploration companies expected at DRC Mining Week, the following sector pioneers and longstanding supporters and speakers at the event have already confirmed their presence: Confirmed speakers representing government and the public sector include: Apart from Standard Bank’s diamond plus sponsorship, as with previous editions of the event, DRC Mining Week has already secured wide and impressive industry support through leading industry giants, including Tenke Fungurume as diamond sponsor and AEL, CATOCA, Engen and Sofibanque as platinum sponsors. DRC Mining Week is organised by Spintelligent, a leading Cape Town-based and multi-award winning organiser of exhibitions and conferences across the continent in the infrastructure, energy, mining and agriculture sectors. Other well-known events by Spintelligent include African Utility Week, Agritech Expo Zambia, Nigeria Mining Week, Future Energy East Africa, Future Energy Nigeria and the East & Central Africa Mining Forum. Spintelligent is part of the UK-based Clarion Events Group.  DRC Mining Week: Site visit: 18 June 2019 Pre-conference Power Focus Day: 19 June 2019 Expo and conference: 19-21 June 2019 Location: The Pullman Grand Karavia Hotel, Lubumbashi, DRC  Website: http://www.drcminingweek.com     Twitter:  https://twitter.com/drcminingweek    Facebook:  https://www.facebook.com/DRC-Mining-Week-156193451406496/   LinkedIN: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/4922857     Media contact: Senior communications manager: Annemarie Roodbol Office: +27 21 700 3558 Email: annemarie.roodbol@spintelligent.com