Acacia Mining has announced that the Tanzanian NEMC has issued North Mara mine with a Prohibition Notice ordering the North Mara mine to stop the use of its TSF by 6.00 am local time Saturday 20 July 2019. The National Environment Management Council (NEMC) cites the North Mara mine’s failure to contain and prevent seepage from the tailings storage facility (TSF) as grounds for its issuance of the notice. The notice states that it shall remain effective until such time that NEMC is satisfied that the North Mara mine has taken measures to contain seepage from the TSF. Acacia is immediately reaching out to NEMC and to the Government of Tanzania to seek clarification on the Notice received yesterday, including to request copies of any investigation reports or data upon which the Notice is based. Acacia’s North Mara mine was issued with an Environmental Protection Order and fine in May 2019 for alleged deficiencies at the TSF. However, the North Mara mine has never received any supporting reports, findings or technical data in relation to these allegations. As previously disclosed on 8 March 2019, the North Mara mine’s technical team has been working constructively and collaboratively with the Government of Tanzania in order to address the its concerns regarding alleged breaches of various environmental regulations and alleged discharges from the mine. The North Mara mine undertook to manage all seepage through the use of additional pumps and construction of other containment facilities to return any seepage to the TSF and ensure it is confined to the mine site. All seepage is and will be contained on the site, does not flow into the surrounding environment or present a risk of contamination to any public water source. In January 2019, the Government of Tanzania issued a directive to the North Mara mine to construct a new TSF. The mine commenced planning and design for a new TSF, and has been working with the Government of Tanzania to progress the construction of a new TSF to support its future mine production plans.