MC Mining has
announced the approval by the Industrial Development Corporation of South
Africa of a term loan facility to fund the construction of Phase 1 of the
Makhado hard coking coal project. The loan reaffirms
the economics of the Makhado project and follows the conclusion of off-take
agreements for the coal to be produced by Phase 1. Proceeds of the loan
will be utilised to develop the west pit and modify the existing Vele Colliery
processing plant, with construction expected to take nine months followed by
first coal production in month ten. The Makhado project is 69% owned by MC Mining’s subsidiary Baobab Mining & Exploration with the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa having a 5% interest and, in compliance with South African black economic empowerment requirements, seven local communities own 20% and 6% is held by a black industrialist. David
Brown, CEO comments: “The approval of the IDC funding is a positive step for the development of MC Mining’s flagship Makhado project. “The
company is positioned to become South Africa’s pre-eminent producer of
high-grade metallurgical coal with long-term hard coking coal markets supported
by growing global steel demand, driven by economic development and
urbanisation. “The loan reflects the IDC’s support for the development of the Makhado
Project and replaces the 2017 financing that was utilised to fund pre-project
activities, including securing the numerous regulatory licences and approvals. “Phase 1 utilises the existing Vele Colliery processing facility as well
as previously tested logistics infrastructure and with an internal rate of
return in excess of 45% and a payback of less than 2.5 years, generates
significant returns for shareholders. “MC Mining will now progress the remainder of the Phase 1 funding
requirements and anticipates that this will be completed in Q3 CY2019 with
construction commencing later in the same period, followed by a short
construction period of nine months.” The salient features
of the Term Loan are, subject to documentation: The loan is subject to various conditions precedent including: The
security for the loan includes: The
securing of the loan is a key component for the development of Phase 1 of the
Makhado Project. The total
funding requirement for both Phase 1 and the settlement of the existing 2017 loan
facility is some R700 million ($50 million). The loan
will satisfy R245 million ($17.5 million) of this, leaving a residual equity
requirement of R455 million ($32.5 million). MC Mining
anticipates that an equity raise to secure the residual equity requirement will
be completed in due course enabling construction activities to commence later
in Q3 CY2019. Phase 1 is a critical
step in the development of Phase 2 of the Makhado Project, which also has
significant positive economics. The construction of
Phase 2 which is anticipated to commence from CY2022 will yield approximately
0.8 Mtpa of hard coking coal and between 0.9 Mtpa and 1.0 Mtpa of export
quality thermal coal. MC Mining has already secured off-take agreements for circa 50% of the hard-coking coal.