ASX and JSE-listed minerals explorer Orion Minerals has proven that South Africa’s Mining Charter 3 ownership objectives can be achieved, while also maintaining, and in this case, enhancing value for shareholders. CHANTELLE KOTZE writes. Focused on creating meaningful empowerment structures, Orion signed a pivotal A$8 million capital raising in April, which was underpinned by a group of high-profile South African investors as part of a proposed restructure of the company’s black economic empowerment (BEE) equity participation at project level, achieving accelerated compliance with the ownership requirements of Mining Charter 3. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 6, 2019Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here As a result of the restructuring,
all Orion’s BEE partners will be aligned as shareholders at the ASX and
JSE-listed level, sharing both the equity reward and risk on equal terms with
all the company’s shareholders. Orion
Minerals CEO Errol Smart says that the company’s key shareholders have
recognised the potential value uplift brought on by the new BEE partners and
have participated in the placement at a significant premium to market, matching
the terms on which the incoming BEE partners are investing. The
placing was undertaken at an issue price of $0.04 per fully paid ordinary share
(a 29% premium to market), together with one free attaching option for every
two shares issued. It includes approximately $4 million placed to experienced South African BEE entrepreneurs, of which $2 million is being placed to the new BEE equity investors. These include Black Star Minerals principle and Prieska-born Jowell Tobias, his wife Johanna Tobias, and business partner Sharon Matthews with 67% ownership; and Kolobe Nala Investment Company principle Billy Mawasha with 33% ownership. These
new BEE equity investors will also invest in Orion’s Prieska zinc-copper
project in South Africa’s Northern Cape at project level, having entered into a memorandum of understanding with Orion
Minerals to establish a BEE holding company (BEE HoldCo). Meanwhile,
the BEE restructuring transactions entailed the founding BEE shareholders in
Orion’s subsidiary Repli Trading No 27, exchanging their 26.7% holding in Repli
for JSE-listed Orion shares. The
new BEE shareholders, through BEE HoldCo, will then acquire a 20% shareholding
in Repli, and will have the entitlement to provide their proportionate share of
Prieska mine development costs on equal terms with the other shareholders of
Repli. As
part of the placement, Orion's biggest
shareholder, Tembo Capital Mining Fund II LP, and its affiliated
entities, have subscribed for $2 million in the placement. Meanwhile,
Orion has strengthened its board by appointing two highly experienced South
African mining executives Godfrey Gomwe, who is the former CEO of Anglo
American’s Thermal Coal business, and former BHP Billiton executive, Tom
Borman, who have specific knowledge and skill in the South African mining
industry, as non-executive directors. Smart believes that the inter-related transactions represent a “pivotal milestone” for the company, ahead of the imminent grant of the mining right for its flagship Prieska project and the delivery of the bankable feasibility study later this quarter.