ASX-listed Avenira is to sell its interests in the Baobab Phosphate Project and Novaphos to a consortium of its major shareholders and receive immediate funding support. Under the transaction: In addition to providing essential short-term funding, the transaction is
attractive given the recent trading history of Avenira: As part of the Transaction, Farouk Chaouni and David Mimran (who both
represent members of the purchasers) have resigned from the Avenira board,
while Timothy Cotton (who is also representing one of the purchasers) intends
to resign upon completion. Further board changes have been agreed with Louis Calvarin stepping down
as MD and CEO. Louis will continue on as a non-executive director (independent) and
assist with the transaction completion and intends to resign upon completion. Brett Clark, (Chairman) will remain with Avenira post completion and will
appoint suitably qualified additional non-executive directors at or before that
time. Avenira Chairman, Brett Clark, says: “We are grateful for the support of Avenira’s shareholders through to
this point. With the support of the major shareholders, we have been able to
structure a transaction that not only relieves considerable financial stress
facing the company, but also affords Avenira shareholders an opportunity to
continue with the ability to trade their shares, as well as crystallise the
value of the Baobab Project and Novaphos interests. “Avenira will move to becoming debt free, with cash available to
re-examine its large Wonarah Phosphate Project in the Northern Territory and
other investment opportunities. Along with Non-executive Director, and fellow
Independent Director, Louis Calvarin, we unanimously recommend that Avenira
shareholders vote in favour of the Transaction at the upcoming shareholder
meeting. “I would also like to thank Farouk Chaouni and David Mimram for their
support as directors / board members over the past few years and wish them well
on their future endeavours. “Finally, I’d like to thank Louis Calvarin for his efforts and guidance for over two years as Managing Director and CEO and look forward to working with him over the next few months to close out the Baobab sales transaction.”