The potential for the mining sector in Nigeria could be realised following the recent appointment of president of the Miners Association of Nigeria ALHAJI KABIR MOHAMMED KANKAR. “My vision is to ensure that miners are given an enabling and conducive environment to practise their legitimate business without any security challenges and harassment from host communities or state governments by partnering with the government security agencies such as police, civil defence corps, state governments and community leaders,” he tells Mining Review Africa. Kankar will deliver the welcome address at the upcoming Nigeria Mining Week conference and exhibition taking place from 15 to 17 October in capital city Abuja. MAN has been part of the event since its inception four years ago, along with PwC and Spintelligent. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 6, 2019Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here “I also want to improve the productivity capacity of an average miner through sourcing of funds and equipment from federal and state governments, as well as the World Bank, NEXIM Bank, Bank of India BOI and other foreign and local investors. This will take our country’s mining sector to the next level,” adds Kankar.  Last year, the Nigerian Minister of Mines and Steel Development, the Honourable Bawa Bwari, opened Nigeria Mining Week and met many exhibitors while touring the expo floor. More than 180 mining and exploration
companies, 40 exhibitors and sponsors, 1 200 attendees from 24 countries are
expected to visit the NAF Conference Centre and Suites in the Nigerian capital where they will be joined
by the governors from Ekiti, Edo, Ondo and Kaduna states. Stellar line-up announced “Nigeria Mining Week has become known as a practical conference and expo,” says event director Emmanuelle Nicholls. “We endeavour to provide practical business know-how, solutions and updates on local mining success stories and case studies to promote the country’s mining opportunities and attract investment.” Expert conference speakers and moderators for the event include: In addition, BARRON has returned as gold sponsor at the event this year. “BARRON entered Nigeria a few years ago and in late 2017 took an active approach with a leading reseller partner, which has a footprint in strategic countries in West Africa,” says Darryn Scheepers, head of Africa at BARRON. Also, PW Nigeria, a mining and civil engineering contractor, has operated in Nigeria for over 45 years and is a returning silver sponsor at Nigeria Mining Week.  “We have acquired a number of licences, the majority of which are in Niger state, and are currently carrying out a detailed exploration programme,” says Martin O’Boyle, director of PW Nigeria.   To find more about Nigeria Mining Week, visit: www.nigeriaminingweek.com