MAN to host local and global mining community again in Abuja “I encourage state governments, World Bank, NEXIM Bank, BOI and other foreign and local investors to come on board and move mining in Nigeria to the next level” says the recently elected new President of the Miners Association of Nigeria (MAN), Alhaji Kabir Mohammed Kankara. He will deliver the welcome address at the upcoming Nigeria Mining Week in Abuja, taking place from 14-16 October: “my message for Nigeria Mining Week 2019 is that we hope to make this year’s session a big forum where the Nigerian miners can showcase the huge resources of solid minerals endowed to the nation.” As organising partners, MAN has been part of the event since its inception four years ago, along with PwC and Spintelligent. The conference programme for the fourth edition of the event is launching this week. Improving the miner’s productivity “As the President of MAN”, Alhaji Kabir Mohammed Kankara adds, “my vision for the association is to see that miners are given an enabling conducive environment to practice their legitimate business without any security challenges and harassment from the host communities or the host state governments by partnering with the government security agencies e.g. police, Civil Defence Corps, state governments and community leaders.” He continues: “I also wish to improve the productivity capacity of an average miner through sourcing of intervention funds and equipment from federal and also encourage state governments, World Bank, NEXIM Bank, BOI and other foreign and local investors to come on board and move mining to the next level. Furthermore, I wish to raise the level of the mining sector to make it another big source of revenue earning for the nation and increase the GDP of Nigeria. I also wish to make our association as another big employment generator to the teeming youths that are roaming about looking for jobs.” The full interview with the MAN President also appears on MRA.com, click here. The Abuja conference and exhibition is expected to attract more than 1200 mining experts, 180+ mines and exploration companies, 40+ sponsors with more than 24 countries represented. Leading industry supplier Barron is returning as gold sponsor while AG Vision, Kian Smith Trade Co, Meridian Drilling & Exploration Services and PW Nigeria Ltd are also already confirmed as silver sponsors.The Nigeria Mining Week event programme highlights include: Opening Session: Theme: Removing the roadblocks along the value chain: Setting the mining industry as a key driver for economic growth Chairperson: Cyril Azobu, Partner, Head Consulting & Mining Leader, PwC, NigeriaSpeakers: More conference session highlights: Pre-conference: Finance and investment day Session topics include: Mining projects updates: Report on current developments More conference session highlights: Nigeria Mining Week dates and location:14 October 2019: Pre-conference: Finance and investment day15-16 October 2019: Opening Session, conference and exhibitionVenue: NAF Conference Centre and Suites in Abuja, Nigeria The event organiser Spintelligent is a well-known trade conference and expo organiser on the continent. The company has particular expertise and experience in mining, infrastructure development and energy; including long-running flagship shows such as Future Energy Nigeria in Lagos, DRC Mining Week in Lubumbashi, East & Central Africa Mining Summit in Kigali and African Utility Week in Cape Town. Website: http://www.nigeriaminingweek.com/   Twitter: https://twitter.com/iPAD_Nigeria    LinkedIN: https://www.linkedin.com/company/nigeria-mining-week Media contact:Senior communications manager: Annemarie RoodbolTelephone: +27 21 700 3558Email: annemarie.roodbol@spintelligent.com