In his address at Mining Indaba in South Africa, President Ramaphosa challenged the mining industry represented by the Minerals Council to take steps to implement what he called “10 value-adding principles”. Supplied by the Minerals Council South Africa In his response, president of the Minerals Council South Africa Mxolisi Mgojo, said, “I believe that our industry would be at fault if it did not respond to the President’s challenge. "We must not only respond to President Ramaphosa, but also continue to engage with him, with government and with other stakeholders on how we can best contribute to this great country of ours by “making mining matter.” Part 1 / Part 2 / Part 3 Challenge 7: Safety and health The Minerals Council and its members are fully committed to zero harm, and significant progress has been made over the
past 25 years, with an 88% reduction in fatalities in the sector and
significant improvements in the reduction of exposures of workers to
occupational hazards. However,
it is acknowledged that more work needs to be done. Reference
was made to the CEO Heartfelt Conversations. “Run under the auspices of our
CEO-led Zero Harm Forum, we wanted to try to understand and brainstorm how we could
achieve the next major step towards zero harm. The
result: the Khumbul’ekhaya initiative that we will be launching this year. “We
implemented the Minerals Council safety and health day initiative last August, material
work is being done with partners in the MHSC, the Minerals Council’s CEO ZeroHarm
forum has been hard at work and the Minerals Council Learning Hub has been helping
identify and roll out leading practice to improve safety and health in the industry.” Challenge 8: To provide internships and job experience opportunities
for young people – as well as business opportunities for SMMEs Said
Mxolisi, “We are implementing various measures to drive this agenda. This
includes our focus on skills development and education, and our expansion of
opportunities to SMMEs on the procurement side.” He referred to the “remarkable work doneby members in empowering small and other emerging business as suppliers to the industry over the past 15 years.” Regarding
internships and job opportunities for young people, Mxolisi explained how the
industry works closely with the Mining Qualifications Authority with the latter
offering qualifying employers grants as part of its internship programme. Challenge 9: Create more opportunities for young women Mxolisi
spoke of progress made. “There were close to zero women in the industry beyond mostly
clerical and medical positions at the dawn of democracy. Today,
some 13% of the workforce, or over 50,000 people, are female.” Elaborating,
he said, “The challenge is not only in numbers. It is also in ensuring that our
operations are places where women can work comfortably and feel safe. “One
of our women board members has agreed to champion getting gender firmly onto
the agenda and we hope to pilot a number of new initiatives in the year ahead.” Challenge 10: To make workers shareholders and board members Said
Mxolisi, “We are proud that mining companies have, since 2006, taken the lead
in developing employee share ownership plans in our companies. No other sector
compares. “Unfortunately, the volatility of our listed companies’ share prices has not always produced the lucrative outcomes for employees
that we would have liked.” Regarding board membership, Mxolisi said, “Achievement of this challenge would be a sign of a well-developed mature relationship between companies and employee
representatives. “That
may perhaps make it something to aspire towards.” Mxolisi
summed up by saying that the industry was taking President Ramaphosa’s challenges
very seriously, and concluded: “In
the spirit of openness and frankness, we would also like to challenge the
President to work with the industry and other partners to improve the sector’s
competitiveness. “If we can do this together, we really can achieve the
real economic and transformational potential of mining. “We look forward to further engagement with him, his colleagues in government and other stakeholders.”