“This is an industry-shaping combination that joins two uniquely complementary companies. It builds on leading technology competencies from Outotec and Metso’s excellent service capabilities." Metso Chairman, Mikael Lilius, says: “This is an exciting day as we announce the transformational combination of two great companies and simultaneously create an independent leader in flow control. "The combination of Metso and Outotec is a unique opportunity to deliver significant value for our shareholders with a broad presence across minerals, metals and aggregates value chains and an even stronger platform for growth and innovation. "Metso Outotec brings together a long history of technological leadership, customer focus and excellence in project execution. Metso Outotec will be further supported by the realization of the significant synergies potential in the combination. "We look forward to working together with Outotec and its employees to develop an industry leader with attractive opportunities.” Outotec Chairman, Matti Alahuhta, comments: “This is an industry-shaping combination that joins two uniquely complementary companies. It builds on our leading technology competencies and Metso’s excellent service capabilities. "The new entity's global operating network, scale, wide technology and service offerings and sustainable development principles will unlock significant benefits for all stakeholders. "It will be in an excellent position to take advantage of market opportunities globally, which together with the significant synergies, will drive strong shareholder value. "I am convinced that we will provide interesting opportunities to its employees, customers and partners.” Metso CEO, Pekka Vauramo, says: “This is a unique opportunity to create value for our customers, employees and partners globally. We will have capabilities that will enable us to drive sustainable growth, while providing our customers with high-quality technology, equipment and services that will ultimately improve their businesses. "We will have an extensive global presence, complementary offering, strong services and a large installed base. We also have excellent people – the best talent in the industry. I am therefore eagerly waiting to join with Outotec’s personnel to begin our exciting journey together.” Outotec CEO, Markku Teräsvasara, highlights: “This combination marks an important milestone in each company’s history and in Outotec’s strategic development. I am excited about the many benefits that the combination will deliver for customers, employees and ultimately shareholders, with the larger scale and combined strengths of both companies. "We have a highly compelling portfolio of technologies and capabilities that will be a key catalyst for unlocking many of these benefits. I look forward to building a great new company together with the employees.” Metso Chairman, Mikael Lilius, concludes: “I firmly believe that timing is now right to establish a focused standalone flow control company. Neles offers an exceptional product portfolio and service offering with best-in-class profitability. "Under the leadership of Olli Isotalo, Neles will have the means to capitalize on both organic and inorganic growth opportunities while continuing to focus on our customers’ needs and delivering intelligent solutions. "Furthermore, Neles is expected to trade in line with the multiple level of flow control peers. I am confident that a focused flow control company with an attractive product offering, proven track-record of strong performance and compelling growth prospects will unlock further value for Metso’s current shareholders and new investors alike.” Transaction highlights: