Anglo American Platinum and Platinum Group Metals have launched a new venture, Lion Battery Technologies to accelerate the development of next-generation battery technology using platinum and palladium. The possibility of creating additional demand for platinum and palladium in the battery technology space is an exciting development and of strategic importance to both parties. The new venture, Lion, has entered into an agreement with Florida International University to further advance a research programme to unlock the potential of Lithium Air and Lithium Sulfur battery chemistries to increase their discharge capacities and cyclability. Under the agreement with Florida International
University, Lion will have exclusive rights to all intellectual property
developed and will lead all commercialisation efforts. Lion is also currently reviewing several additional and complementary opportunities focused on developing next-generation battery technology. Thanks to considerably higher energy density,
Lithium Oxygen and Lithium Sulfur batteries can perform better, by orders of
magnitude, than the best-in-class Lithium-ion batteries currently on the market
or under development. This new generation of lightweight, powerful
batteries has the potential to grow to scale on the back of the attractiveness
of battery electric vehicles (BEVs) and the use of lithium batteries in other
applications beyond mobility. Benny Oeyen, Executive Head of Market Development at Anglo American Platinum, comments: “This exciting early-stage technology aligns with
our broader strategy to bring new technologies to market that will help us
secure future demand for the platinum group metals we mine and pave the way to
a more sustainable energy future. “Our commitment to market development is
underscored by our relationship with AP Ventures, of which we are a cornerstone
investor and who is a potential investor in this technology as it matures.” Michael Jones, CEO of Platinum Group
Metals comments: “Developing new applications for
platinum group metals is key to ensuring long-term sustainable demand, demand
which will be important to the future success of our large-scale Waterberg
palladium and platinum mining project in South Africa.”