TSX/AIM-listed West African gold producer Avesoro has through its subsidiaries, Burkina Mining Company SA and Netiana Mining Company SA, entered into an open pit mining contract with Orkun Group Sarl at its Youga gold mine in Burkina Faso. Under the terms of the mining contract with Orkun, the
contractor assumes responsibility for all future mining fleet overhaul costs.
As a result, Avesoro has reduced its expected H2, 2019 capital expenditure
requirement by c.US$4 million. Should the gold price average $1 400/oz during H2, 2019,
the company on its current production guidance, would generate $11 million more
revenue from H2, 2019 gold sales than was originally anticipated. Based on the assumptions above, the H2, 2019 funding gap
would reduce to $10 - $15 million from the previous guidance of a shortfall of
between $25 – $30 million later in 2019. The funding gap includes $12.9 million
of debt provided by a related party lender falling due for repayment in 2019.A Avesoro is holding constructive discussions with the related
party about deferral of these debt repayments. The Company continues to review other options to further
reduce the H2, 2019 funding gap, including potential reductions in capital
expenditure requirements that may also be realised at New Liberty if a similar
agreement can be reached with the preferred mining contractor for that mine as
has been achieved with Orkun at Youga. A Special Committee is also exploring options to fill the H2,
2019 funding shortfall gap and address the current general working capital
needs of the business following the reduction in the annual production guidance
by 30 000 oz as arising from operational challenges experienced earlier in the
year. The mining programme under the contract is based on the
excavation of between 800 000 and 900 000 bank cubic metres (BCM) of material
per month, including a minimum of 120 000 t of ore delivered to the ROM pad,
per month. Over the life of mine, the contract is based on the
excavation of a minimum of 42 million BCM (Minimum TMM) of material over the
life of mine which can be increased, at the company’s option, to 60 million BCM
on the same terms. The contract price of excavation during the Minimum TMM
period is $4.26 per BCM (approximately $1.60/t) reducing to $3.75 per BCM
thereafter (approximately $1.41/t) for the remainder of the contract. Orkun will pay an earn-in fee of $0.51 per BCM to acquire
BMC’s existing heavy mining equipment fleet. The earn-in fee will be offset
against the amounts invoiced by Orkun. Upon completion of the Minimum TMM,
ownership of BMC’s HME fleet will transfer to Orkun. However, Orkun assumes
full responsibility for the on-going upkeep and maintenance of the HME from
commencement of the contract. Orkun has also committed to supplement the existing HME fleet with $5 million of additional equipment at its own cost. This includes five excavators, 15 haul trucks and auxiliary equipment to ensure that the contracted material movement is achieved. The first batch of this additional HME is due to arrive at Youga in early Q3, 2019. Burkina Mining Company SA and Netiana Mining Company SA will
retain responsibility for mining geology, planning and certain other costs
which are included in the total cost of mining reported by the company. Serhan Umurhan, CEO of Avesoro, comments: “This contract will enable Avesoro to significantly reduce
its future mining costs at Youga. Outsourcing the mining activity will also
enable us to reduce our direct employee headcount and overall business
complexity thereby reducing G&A costs.