IsoMetrix, a global leader in integrated risk management solutions for the mining industry in partnership with IoT.nxt, have developed an innovative approach to effective tailings management that integrates the Internet of Things (IoT) with world-leading management software. IoT.nxt and IsoMetrix presented solution for tailings management at the International Tailings Management Conference in Chile this last week. “Partnering Participating at the conference allows us to better understand what Tailings Managers need from a management system, gauge our offering against other leading providers, engage with tailings experts, and expose our offering to the market,” says Robin Bolton, Executive Head: Sustainability at IsoMetrix. “The IsoMetrix Tailings Management Solution offers environmental managers the ability to view and analyze monitoring data to assess trends and compliance, but also the ability to manage incidents, audits, inspections and to conduct risk assessments on all tailings related activities to ensure that the facility’s risk profile is acceptable, and that any issues or findings are dealt with and closed out,” says Robin Bolton, Executive Head: Sustainability at IsoMetrix. He explains that the benefit to mines – or any operation that has large operational waste storage facilities – is managing compliance and risks, conducting analytics on all the data and providing information quickly through alerts, reports or dashboards. “With our partners, we engage with vendors, practitioners and researchers to develop integrated workflow tools that can manage the large datasets coming from land-based instrumentation and remote sensing technologies,” explains Robin. He adds that IsoMetrix seeks to strengthen operational management practices for the design, operation, and closure of conventionally managed tailings storage facilities (TSFs). “The aim is to deliver improvements to existing controls and monitoring solutions in the short-term,” he says. Benoit
Froment, Regional Partner and Business Director at IsoMetrix, states that the
key benefits of combining IsoMetrix and IoT.nxt technology is that it creates
an integrated solution with workflow tools (IsoMetrix), that manages large
datasets (Microsoft Azure) coming from remote sensing technologies (IoT.nxt). “Together, IsoMetrix and IoT.nxt strengthen operational management practices and deliver improvements to existing controls and monitoring solutions,” he says. "This gives environmental managers the ability to report on performance monitoring to external stakeholders and allows for the rapid collection, management, and quality-checking of data from a wide variety of monitoring instrumentation and remote sensing technologies. “We have had the opportunity to present this technology on an international stage at the Tailings Management Conference, and this has given us exposure to over 400 mining tailings experts,” says Benoit. “Chile and Latin America are also part of our strategic focus regions for business growth. We were also invited the same week by the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) to support our work on strengthening the monitoring and surveillance of tailings storage facilities.” Steve Humphris, APAC Director at IsoMetrix, adds that “We have a preconfigured tailings management solution with data collection, workflows and analytics that can be tailored to suit our customers’ requirements. "We offer a comprehensive EHS management system integrated around risk management.” He goes on to say that Tailings Management Solutions are only effective if they are integrated with other keys elements of EHS management such as incident management, control monitoring and stakeholder management, to provide a comprehensive risk profile to operations.