In recent years organizations have established Business Continuity Management Programmes which define processes to avoid risks and recover from and disasters. With the number one goal of a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) serving to allow for continuation of operations while recovering from a disaster, the key component of the success of BCP’s relies on the organization’s resilience programme. Author: MS. Mpho Modisane, IRMSA Risk Intelligence Committee Resilience defined: The Business Continuity Institute defines Resilience as the adaptive capacity of an organization in a complex changing environment. Resilience is the more mature aspect of recovering from disaster which is
the ability of an organization to uphold its functions regardless of drastic
changes in the internal and external environment. Therefore, in their quest to achieve greater maturity in response to and recovering from risks and disasters, an organization must consider a tailor-made resilience program to enable continuation of business under adverse circumstances. Resilience statistics: In their annual Africa Resilience survey, Ernst and Young (EY) discovered that although majority of African Organizations have good BCPs; they in addition require a matured resilience programme to reduce the likelihood of exposure and  recover from disruptive events when they happen. The conclusions from the survey indicate that approximately 72% [Level 2 –
Level 5] of the respondents reported that their resilience programme can assist
in recovering business operations after a disaster. Of that number, 5% is certifiable and 28% can recover all critical functions
within approved Recovery Time Objectives. Only 28% either cannot recover operations or the respondents do not know the
maturity level of the programme. Over 64% of the aggregated participants have indicated an alignment of their
companies BCM resilience solutions, to international best practices, i.e. ISO
22301, ISO 22316, BS 65000, ISO 27031, the Business Continuity Institute Good
Practice Guidelines 2013 and/or COBIT. Of the 64% approximately 10% have specified that their companies are
aligned to BS 65000  i.e. a Guidance document on organisational
resilience. The EY survey further rated the resilience maturity of the sampled organizations in line with international standards on a five-point scale, with five being the most mature level:  With the survey having revealed that 5% of the sampled organizations have reached level 5, 28% level 4, 24% level 3, 15% level 2 and 10% level 1 maturity of business resilience. The remaining 18% of the respondents indicated level of resilience unknown. With the survey having revealed that 5% of the sampled organizations have reached level 5, 28% level 4, 24% level 3, 15% level 2 and 10% level 1 maturity of business resilience. The remaining 18% of the respondents indicated level of resilience unknown. With the survey having revealed that 5% of the sampled organizations have reached level 5, 28% level 4, 24% level 3, 15% level 2 and 10% level 1 maturity of business resilience. The remaining 18% of the respondents indicated level of resilience unknown. What this indicates is that although 72% of the respondents
reported that their resilience programme can assist in recovering business
after a disaster, only 5% have their risk management sources spread beyond the
scope of traditional risk methods. The need to be multinationally resilient: The complication with any organization operating multinationally is that the nature of disasters become foreign, away from the home country. The best assurance any organization can get against unknown
material disruptive events is to align with international standards both at
policy level and implementation. A multinationally resilient organisation can reduce their
vulnerability through adopting a resilience programme which gives them the
opportunity to recover all critical functions within the approved Recovery Time
Objectives. As a risk professional have you considered that: The most responsible decision of any organization would be to be aligned with international business resilience standards and formally adopt these as part of the risk management and business continuity program, because in spite of everything we are all part of the global world.