West African focused gold exploration company Cora Gold has been awarded 100% ownership of the 82 km² Tagan permit, partially overlying previously held ground, located on the Yanfolila Gold Belt. Mali - The newly awarded permit area overlies what is
considered to be the most prospective area of a previous permit held by Cora
Gold which expired in June 2017. The Tagan permit lies approximately midway between the Sanankoro permit of Cora Gold, with its gold discovery, and the Yanfolila mine of Hummingbird Resources, lying within a 30 km radius of both. Historic exploration covered the permit with reconnaissance
soil geochemical sampling, primarily on a grid of 800 m x 100 m, with local
areas infilled on 200 m x 50 m.  Shallow
auger and aircore drilling was also undertaken locally. One target at Tagan, an aircore hole, returned a grade of
1.1 g/t gold over 44 m, which was undercut by a diamond core hole, which
reported a grade of 1.7 g/t gold over 14 m. Cora Gold had previously compiled the historic data and has
had the opportunity in Q2, 2019 to undertake additional field work which
focused on geological mapping of the permit. 
This revealed that a considerable area of the permit is covered by
either transported recent sediment or is a laterite plateau of iron
ferricrete.  Both materials have the
effect of masking or diluting soil sample responses. To overcome this, semi quantitative termite sampling was undertaken across the western and southern part of the permit at a density of sample collection which, although dictated by the occurrence of termite mounds, generally provides for a sample on roughly a 50 – 100m grid. Sampling is conducted by the systematic collection of a
known volume of sample from an intermediary or cathedral termite mound and
panned with a count of the number of gold grains recovered. The technique is commonly used in surface gold exploration
and often the sample is assayed for contained gold. It is believed that
termites descend below the transported material and lateritic cap and in
bringing sands and clays to surface, bring with them gold grains derived from
potential primary gold bearing structures. The distribution and intensity of gold grains can be used as
a targeting guide in conjunction with the results of the mapping programme with
rock and quartz fragments which may also be found in anomalous areas. Cora Gold’s field work programme has also included
collecting samples of rock fragments if with features of interest, which are
then crushed and panned for gold. It is not unusual to find contained gold
grains in the rock which supports the identification of a target. Through the combination of historic data and the results of
the Cora exploration programme, over 20 priority targets of length typically
between 800 m to 2 000 m have been identified closely related to regional
structural features that cross the Tagan permit.  The priority targets include the area
identified by previous drilling, around which occurs evidence of historic
artisanal mining. This work justifies a future exploration programme that
might benefit from a regional geophysical programme to aid “looking through”
the cover material, followed by extensive reconnaissance shallow drill
programmes. The Tagan permit is awarded for an initial period of three
years, with two subsequent extensions available of two years each. Jon Forster, CEO of Cora Gold, comments: “It is very pleasing to have the most prospective part of an
area previously held by Cora once more awarded as part of the Tagan permit,
extending our time to explore and assess the area for up to seven years.” “Initial results from recent fieldwork have indicated potential instances where gold mineralisation has been overlooked by historical work. Analysis of historical data in addition to our own fieldwork has resulted in the identification of over 20 priority targets that shall form the basis for further exploration work.” 