During the tabling of the mineral resources’ budget vote for 2019/20 to the National Assembly, Mineral Resources and Energy Minister Gwede Mantashe has once again reiterated his stance in that South Africa’s mining industry is a sunrise industry, calling on the mining industry to focus on the exploration and exploitation of the country’s world-class mineral deposits. Mantashe
pointed out the need to resuscitate Greenfield exploration in a bid to capture
a minimum of 5% of the global exploration share, which currently averages about
US$10 billion a year. Mineral
resources has been allocated a R2-billion budget for the 2019/2020 financial
year. The minister believes that the Department's investment during this calendar year will attract a minimum of R8 billion into the South African exploration sector. To this end, the government has deliberately decided to invest in the geoscience mapping programme, through the Council for Geoscience. The countries geoscience mapping programme and its online cadastre system – the South
African Mineral Resources Administration System (SAMRAD) – which was aimed at fostering an increased tempo
of exploration in South Africa by ending the long administrative
delays when applying for exploration rights and mining permits,
has long been
criticised for being dysfunctional and a far cry from the cadastres of other African mining jurisdictions. Stable
investment environment Discussing the country’s policy and regulatory framework, Mantashe said that these are stable and predictable and should result in an increase in mining investment. Mantashe said that the principal mining
industry Act – the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act – as well as
Section 100 thereof, are clear on requirements for current and potential
investors. “Together with stakeholders, we are
developing a growth and competitiveness strategy; conscious that growth,
transformation and competitiveness are all critical for the long-term sustainability
of the mining sector,” he said. By way of example, Mantashe said that significant
investments, totalling R45 billion and creating an estimated four thousand permanent
jobs, poured into the sector in the past year. Among them; R21.8 billion by Vedanta
Resources in the Northern Cape; Sasol’s R14 billion mine replacement programme
at Shondoni and Impumelelo in Mpumalanga; and Exxaro’s R3,3 billion mine
investment in Belfast, Mpumalanga. “These are an endorsement to South
Africa being an attractive destination for mining investment,” he said, adding
that over 2018 to 2020, a total of 60 mineral resources projects are in the
pipeline, with an investment estimate value of R110 billion, and a projected
employment of 32 000 jobs for projects in exploration, expansion, new mines and
processing plants. The department said that it recognises the growth of junior miners, who are significant players in exploration.