It was with a confusing combination of emotions that I completed my reading of Pieter-Louis Myburgh’s ‘Gangster State’ about State Capture in South Africa. Anger – about the disrespectful arrogance with which the dreams of millions were stolen through State Capture, while they trustingly looked on. AUTHOR: Christelle Marais, Executive Director - Lucidum Consulting Sadness – over the blood, sweat and tears that made this country, built a new society after 1994 and the blood, sweat and tears that will rebuild it again, after the capture. Guilt – like many of my risk management colleagues, wondering if we could have done more to prevent the rot (causes) or to uncover what was going on (consequences) as part of our risk management effort in public and private organisations (because as ‘Gangster State’ suggests: State Capture takes two to tango!). And then – frustration. Ah, maybe my
frustration weighs heaviest on my heart… But frustration of the kind that would
do it all over again, if someone would just listen, if someone would just take
me seriously. While reading
‘Gangster State’ I was reminded of whistle-blower Harry Markopolos’ book ‘No
One Would Listen’ about his investigation into the Madoff investment scandal
and how the US Securities and Exchange Commission failed to heed his warnings. I was struck deeply by many who warned about what was happening in the Free State, such as Patrick Lekota, who’s highlighting of concerns of State Capture went ignored (at best) and purposely thwarted (at worst); the Goldhawk report, with scathing findings on irregular loans; the Auditor-General, with many reports on the lack of financial controls and disregard for legislative compliance; Beatrice Marshoff, trying to appoint MECs that could do the job, but instructed to appoint Ace Magashule; and Noby Ngombane, whose efforts to implement oversight of Free State municipalities’ spending may have cost him his life. While I found
the disregard for these warnings alarming, they awoke in me more familiar
feelings: feelings that most risk managers would know all too well. But most of
all, exasperation when my reports are ‘NOTED’ by my governing body only to be
regarded as having failed to convey the message, when things go wrong. As I read, I
wondered what Madiba and Thabo Mbeki would say about the fact that they wished
away the warnings, tip-toed around the issues and bowed to public and party
pressures (diplomatically trying to keep a fragile governing system stable, but
creating huge future problems for many people, not least of which is the
legitimacy of government). I reflected on
Minister Pravin Gordhan’s question at IRMSA’s 2018 Conference to risk managers: ‘How did you
miss state capture?’ And I felt like asking: ‘How did you not hear us when we
spoke out?’ Perhaps my
message today is not so much to risk managers, as it is to leaders in all
spheres of our economy (public, private, non-profit organisations, and civil
society); to these executives, directors, society leaders, political heads and
parliament, please: • take risk
management seriously; • understand
that operating within ‘risk appetite’-levels when pursuing an ‘ethical
culture’, ‘legitimacy’, ‘good performance’ and ‘effective control’ will help
organisations succeed; • enable your
risk managers, include them in key decisions; they may be the only ones able to
integrate all risk related information across your entire organisation so that
you can take informed decisions; and • heed warnings
that expose risk of wrongdoing; from the Free State to Steinhoff, organisations
can on. To fail in risk management, is to fail our country, its economy and its
people.