The ability for employees and business owners to pre-tax structure their relatives’ school and tertiary education fees remains one of the few available but seldom used tax planning opportunities. In short, they can sacrifice a portion of their taxable income in exchange
for their company’s bursary paying their education costs tax-free, thereby
obtaining a tax benefit. How much they save depends on the fee amount, their tax bracket and the
number of learners they support. For qualifying employees, their savings range between R3,600 and R23,400 per
person per annum. With the allowed limits for employer bursaries having been recently
increased, organisations are beginning to see this as a meaningful benefit to
attract and retain talent. However, according to Darren Britz, Senior Tax Attorney, and Donne Trump, Bursary Advisor, at Remuneration Consultants (Tax Consulting SA), the arrangement must adhere to the letter of the law or employers could find themselves in hot water with SARS. What is an employee bursary benefit? In terms of the Income Tax Act 58 of 1962 as amended, a bona fide bursary or scholarship granted to an employee’s relatives shall be exempt from tax within certain limits and provided certain conditions are met. The employee must not earn more than R600,000 for the year of assessment,
and the portion of the bursary amount exceeding R20,000 for Grade R to 12 or
NQF 1 to 4, or exceeding R60,000 for an NQF 5 to 10 qualification, will be
subject to taxation. When correctly augmented with the provisions for a salary sacrifice, the
clause allows employees to legally reduce their taxable income in exchange for
the equal but tax-free bursary benefit. “Employers with tight budgets can increase their employee value proposition
(EVP) tenfold, at virtually no cost, just by offering this reward,” says Trump. However, It is important to note that an employer’s payment of the school
fees is a fringe benefit, as contemplated in the 7th Schedule of the Act. Therefore, additional requirements need to be met to obtain the exemption,
while critical legal and administrative procedures must be followed throughout
the life of the incentive for the bursary and resulting tax reduction to be
valid. The rise of questionable schemes Any organisation wishing to offer such a benefit must perform the requisite due diligence and thoroughly research the requirements before taking on a partner to set up and administer the bursary. They should also ensure the programme is backed by a legal opinion that
expresses its validity. “Companies shouldn’t focus on incentives marketed
solely to appeal to employees,” warns Britz. “Rather, they need a system that’s also deeply rooted in law to protect
themselves so they can offer a bulletproof case if called to account by SARS.” In contrast, the firm has noted several offerings appearing in the market
whose legal grounding would not stand up to close scrutiny by the tax
authority. It is concerned that this could rob companies of a much needed means to
attract, mobilise and retain vital skills. If enough of those schemes fail, with employers left holding an unwanted tax bill, SARS and businesses alike could tar all such offerings with the same brush. “Yet, this incentive will undoubtedly provide the competitive advantage
companies are desperately seeking,” says Miss Trump. “It costs the employer nothing, allows employees to contribute to a need
that’s important to them while lowering their tax obligation and, overall,
promotes education in South Africa.” She further urges that employers who are interested in this staff incentive
should engage a reputable bursary administrator with a strong tax and legal
foundation, backed by tax attorneys and chartered accountants, to assure the
successful creation and implementation thereof.