AngloGold
Ashanti has confirmed it is embarking on a process to review divestment options
for its remaining South African assets. This
process will consider all ownership options, with a view to maximising the
value and future prospects of these assets. This is
in line with AngloGold Ashanti’s ongoing review of its portfolio and a
disciplined approach to allocation
of capital and other resources to ensure it generates maximum value for all its
stakeholders. AngloGold Ashanti has dedicated significant time and resources over the past few years to restructure its South African operating portfolio into a more focused business with enhanced operating and financial metrics. The
successful completion of the restructuring has resulted in this portfolio comprising
a single underground mine, Mponeng, a surface rock dump processing business and
a mine waste retreatment operation, Mine Waste Solutions. These
assets are now better positioned for the future, with the potential for further
enhanced production growth, profitability and free cash generation from the
significant remaining ore reserve base of 16.8 Moz. Mponeng
is ramping up production from the Below 120 Level project, which is expected to
give it a lifespan
of around eight years, with improved margins from anticipated higher grades
within this new mine area. In
the medium term (starting in around two years), Mponeng will require additional
capital investment
to further extend its life and to realise the full potential of this operation. “We
believe that under the right ownership, our South African assets offer a
compelling long-term value
proposition that may allow for an extension to Mponeng mine’s current life,” CEO
Kelvin Dushnisky says. “The
investment to extend Mponeng’s life beyond eight years has very strong
competition for capital and other scarce resources from a host of other
projects in our portfolio, which at current planning assumptions are more
attractive, generating higher returns and quicker payback periods - we have
therefore decided to review divestment options for our South African business.” This
process is at an early stage and may not ultimately result in any change to the
ownership of the South
African business. AngloGold Ashanti’s priority is to ensure that the process is
conducted with the
appropriate thoroughness to ensure the best possible outcome for all
stakeholders.