“The issue of child labour in the sector is still relevant despite the  efforts of most conventional mining companies." Exclusive interview with Sarah Moser, project coordinator at the BUMI non-profit in the DRC focused on helping orphaned and vulnerable children. BUMI is DRC Mining Week's project of choice as social responsibility outreach programme.  Let’s start with some background on BUMI and your activities in the DRC?BUMI  means “LIFE” in Kiluba, one of the 250 languages spoken in DRC. As a  non-profit organization we aim at providing better life and future to  orphans and vulnerable children. A vulnerable child is a child at high  risk of lacking adequate care and protection. In practice, it includes  abandoned or abused children, but also children and youth living in the  streets or being economically and sexually exploited. BUMI welcomes  these children and provides them with housing, education, vocational  training and health care. Above all, we restore their dignity, give them  love and self-confidence. Currently, our Recpetion Center and  Children Village provide global care to 160 children, more than 500  disadvantaged children attend our schools and our Health Center is open  to the surrounding community. We also run a farming and agriculture  project aiming at at training youth while generating income and food for  covering our needs.Any particular projects that you are involved in currently in Lubumbashi that you are very excited about?Last  year we launched a new partnership with the DRC Mining Week with the  aim of raising awareness of the various actors of the mining sector on  the protection of vulnerable children, investment in youth education and  support to communities. This is a very exciting project as we learn  about policies and strategies implemented by the mining companies and  their sub-contractors, and we share with them our knowledge and  expertise, while identifying together how they can increase their social  impact in a sustainable way. We are happy to see that more and more  companies are becoming aware of their responsibility and implement  social projects, not only to comply with the regulations (i.e. min. 0,3%  of revenue for contribution to development projects) but also because  they value social investments. This action has benefited our  organization and mid-2018, just after the DRC Mining Week, Rubamin SARL offered a drinking water well to the children of BUMI. At the end of the  year we also launched a new partnership with Katanga Contracting  Service / KCS to improve the care of orphaned and abandoned children at  our Children’s Village. Other mining sub-contractors have also joined  forces to improve the living conditions of the children we serve.How would you describe your partnership with the DRC Mining Week and the impact of our contribution?In  addition to the huge impact in terms of visibility and advocacy, the  partnership with the DRC Mining Week comes with a long term capacity  building support with focus on our Reception and Family reintegration  programme, that takes place at our Reception Center. This is the place  where children are being brought, sometimes with trauma, malnutrition or  other issues. Our team of educators provides immediate  psychological, medical and legal support and initiates research in the  hope of understanding the child background, and finding some relatives  willing - and capable to take care of the child. Important progress has  been achieved thanks to the DRC Mining Week support and we are now able  to accept and reintegrate more children, which means less children at  risk. We are really grateful and excited to see how this partnership  will further develop in the coming years. What do you expect from the DRC Mining Week? How important is this forum for an organization like BUMI ? I  believe that not enough is made to create synergies between mining  companies and organizations working on social projects, community  development or education. Mining companies could benefit from  partnerships with grassroots organizations like ours, who have knowledge  and experience. But they are often reluctant because of lack of trust,  communication and cultural differences. Therefore many companies decide  to implement themselves their CSR projects or to contract ad hoc  agencies. By doing so, they can have a direct control of the costs and  outcome but this strategy can make the impact less sustainable. In fact,  I have seen several projects abandoned because the site was closed or  the management was changed. With the new mining code putting the  emphasis on inclusive community development projects, it is important  that organizations working with or representing the different  communities participate to a event like the DRC Mining Week. On  the other hand, the issue of child labour in the sector is still  relevant despite the efforts of most conventional mining companies. It  is therefore important to show that solutions and alternatives are  possible, as soon as public, private ans social actors work together.  For more information: http://www.bumi-rdc.org