Emerging African graphite producer Walkabout Resources has
commenced with an integrated international project “early-start” to commence
procurement, manufacturing and site works for the Lindi Jumbo graphite project. Tanzania - Simultaneously with “early-start”, the company
has finalised a placement of US$3.1 million at a price of A$0.23c which is a 10%
discount to the 5-day Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) determined at
trading halt 3 May 2019. Walkabout Resources has implemented its funding strategy to run simultaneously with two options, at least one of which is expected (not definitively), to prevail: 1. A high-yield short term quasi-debt instrument (High Yield
Note) offered to wholesale and sophisticated investor and shareholder groups.
This Note will be underpinned by elective equity conversions or loan redemption
and ultimately secured by the mineral asset; and/or 2. A high-yield short term debt provided by one or more
institution/s under similar but not identical terms as above. The debt to
equity ratio of both these options is as yet unknown but it is the intention of
the Company to maximise the debt portion within the servicing capacity of the project. Both these options are currently in advanced stages of
preparation and negotiation, however definitive timelines and terms cannot be
announced at this time. The objective of the early-start programme is to advance the
project construction process along its critical path while project funding is being
finalised and negotiated. The primary benefits should include a reduction of the
project construction timeline due to the period of manufacture of equipment in
China. Initial RAP payments of approximately US$300 000 have already been made
to community stakeholders and initial access to site for the purposes of
construction activities has been achieved. The two comparative indicative schedules below highlight the
potential time saving of between 2 to 3 months through the early procurement
and manufacturing of long lead items. An agreement has been executed between Walkabout and Yantai
Jinpeng Mining and Machinery Co. Pty Ltd (Jinpeng) to commence with primary and
long lead equipment procurement and manufacture for a down payment of US$0.5 million
and a final payment of US$0.5 million upon delivery and approved ready for
shipping. The project schedule has determined that the manufacturing
of the milling and float plant amounts to significant periods of time within
the project’s critical path, so the early start process of manufacturing these
items directly affects the end date of the project. In agreement with stakeholders and local authorities for the
area, the Company has made payments to a select group of land-holders and has
attained access to areas of the “foot-print affected” site for the purposes of
commencing with early start works at the mine site. Tanzanian earthworks and mining contract partner TNR Ltd has
been contracted to commence an early start site works programme. The intention
of the site early-start works are to prepare the plant and associated
infrastructure site for civil works and also demonstrate the company’s
readiness to commence with construction. The Initial earthworks programme has commenced without
incident and includes clearing construction site areas as well as building and
enhancing the required on-site road network. The on-site early-start programme has several advantages;