Wescoal is acquiring a 50% interest in Arnot coal mine and intends to restart coal production and supply to Eskom’s Arnot power station during FY2020. Wescoal, Holdings
(WSL) will acquire the assets, liabilities and employees of the Arnot coal mine
in Mpumalanga from Exxaro Coal Mpumalanga (ECM) in partnership with Innovators
Resources (IR). The transaction
was subject to several key conditions precedent including the consent by the Minister of Mineral Resources, in
terms of section 11 of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act
(MPRDA) to the cession of the mining right by ECM in favour of Arnot OpCo
(Ministerial Consent). The Ministerial Consent was received on 26 April 2019 and
the only outstanding conditions precedent before Arnot is transferred to Arnot
OpCo are the approval by the Competition authorities
and the assignment of all the rights and obligations of ECM under the Coal Supply
Agreement (CSA) with Eskom to Arnot OpCo. The shareholders
of IR are previous employees of ECM who were retrenched during the shut-down in
December 2015. Their initiative
to restart the Arnot Mine and unlock its value created the opportunity for
Wescoal to become a partner. Wescoal’s 50%
interest is subscribed for in Arnot HoldCo whose only asset is its shareholding
in Arnot OpCo, which in turn holds one asset only, namely the Arnot Mine. Importantly, this
is a significant broad-based empowerment Transaction which will secure
employment and provide employees and communities around the mine with equity
participation as outlined in Mining Charter III and we are excited that Wescoal
Mining is the enabling partner in the relationship with IR. This transaction
will enable development of coal reserves that would have been sterilized by the
mine closure process. Arnot Mine is
adjacent to the Arnot Power Station and coal can be delivered to the power
station through a conveyer belt, resulting in a cost competitive advantage with
minimum carbon emissions environmental impact. In this regard,
Arnot OpCo has responded on 2 April 2019 to the Eskom Request for Proposal
(RFP) to supply coal to the Arnot Power Station. Wescoal’s
strategy is focused on securing additional resources and strategic interests in
coal and key logistics infrastructure and the DMR has actively sought out
acquisitive value-enhancing opportunities, such as this extensive coal resource
base. It’s aligned with
Wescoal’s strategy of generating value for Wescoal shareholders in a scalable,
sustainable way.