The World Bank has launched its Climate-Smart Mining Facility – the first-ever fund dedicated to making mining for minerals and metals a more sustainable practice that complements the energy transition and helps mitigate the effects of climate change. The
Facility will support the sustainable extraction and processing of minerals and
metals used in clean energy technologies, such as wind, solar power, and
batteries for energy storage and electric vehicles. It focuses on helping
resource-rich developing countries benefit from the increasing demand for
minerals and metals, while ensuring the mining sector is managed in a way that
minimizes the environmental and climate footprint. The
Facility evolves out of a World Bank report “The Growing Role of Minerals and
Metals for a Low-Carbon Future” which found that a low-carbon future will be
significantly more mineral intensive than a business as usual scenario. Global
demand for “strategic minerals” such as lithium, graphite and nickel will
skyrocket by 965%, 383% and 108% respectively by 2050. While
the growing demand for minerals and metals offers an opportunity for
mineral-rich developing countries, it also represents a challenge: without
climate-smart mining practices, the negative impacts from mining activities
will increase, affecting vulnerable communities and environment. The
multi-donor trust fund will work with developing countries and emerging
economies to implement sustainable and responsible strategies and practices
across the mineral value chain. The Facility will also assist governments to
build a robust policy, regulatory and legal framework that promotes
climate-smart mining and creates an enabling environment for private capital. The
World Bank is targeting a total investment of $50 million, to be deployed over
a 5-year timeframe. The
Facility has already gained traction in the industry with partners including
the German government and private sector companies, Anglo American and Rio
Tinto. Anglo American becomes founding sponsor Diversified
mining company Anglo American showed its commitment to the World Bank’s initiative
by becoming a founding donor to the Climate Smart Mining Facility. Building
on the World Bank’s initial $2 million investment, Anglo American has committed
to providing $1 million to the Facility over the next five years. The
Facility’s work will support the sustainable extraction and processing of
mining products used in developing clean energy technologies, such as copper
used in energy storage and electric vehicles. The fund will also work with
governments and operators in developing countries to establish strategies for
sustainable mining operations and legal frameworks that promote smart mining. Anglo
American shares the World Bank’s view that the energy transition will be
mineral-intensive, creating economic opportunities for resource-rich countries
and the mining sector. “To have real impact we must work together
with governments and operators to bring changes. That is why we are supporting
the World Bank with this Facility, to provide funds that can transform our
industry for the future,” says Anglo American chief executive Mark Cutifani. “Mining
cannot continue its long path of simply scaling up to supply what the world
needs. We need to do things in dramatically different ways if we are to
transform our footprint and be valued by all our stakeholders. Our first
responsibility is to reduce our energy and water usage, and our emissions. At
Anglo American, we have set ourselves on a journey to carbon neutrality
operationally, with our 2020 and 2030 targets as staging posts. Our FutureSmart
Mining technologies will be a key driver of this,” Cutifani adds. Rio Tinto shows its support Rio
Tinto believes that the initiative will bring together governments, private
sector companies, academic and research institutions to promote sustainable
mining practices in resource rich developing countries. Climate-Smart
Mining has been developed in concert with the broader UN Sustainable
Development Goals to ensure that the benefits from the transition to low-carbon
technologies are shared. It
will innovate and deploy financing to scale up technical assistance and support
for projects such as: The
Facility will also assist governments to build a robust policy, regulatory and
legal framework that promotes climate-smart mining and creates an enabling
environment for private capital. “The
transition to clean energy solutions presents both a significant opportunity
and responsibility for the mining industry, as it provides the materials that make
these technologies possible,” says Rio Tinto chief executive J-S Jacques. “We
want to be part of the solution on climate change and the best solutions will
come from innovative partnerships across competitors, governments and
institutions. Our collaboration with the World Bank and many others is
aimed at making a real difference by promoting sustainable practices
across our industry. We look forward to supporting the Climate-Smart Mining
Facility by contributing not just funding but also expertise as a leader in
sustainable mining practices.” According
to World Bank senior director and head of the Energy and Extractives Global
Practice Riccardo Puliti, “The World Bank supports a low-carbon transition
where mining is climate-smart and value chains are sustainable and green. “Developing
countries can play a leading role in this transition: developing strategic
minerals in a way that respects communities, ecosystems and the environment.
Countries with strategic minerals have a real opportunity to benefit from the
global shift to clean energy,” he says.