Sibanye-Stillwater shareholders have voted in overwhelming favour of acquiring the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of Lonmin. The ordinary resolution was passed by the requisite majority of votes at Sibanye-Stillwater’s general meeting held on the morning of 28 May, where 99.65% of Sibanye-Stillwater shareholders present voted in favour of the deal, with 0.35% of votes against the resolution. Lonmin shareholders will vote in London at the Court meeting and the general meeting today at 11.30 a.m. (London time) and 11.45 a.m. (London time), respectively. Leroy Mnguni, an analyst at SBG Securities, a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Standard Bank Group, said in a note to clients on 24 May that
Sibanye-Stillwater’s offer represented R11.60 a share, and that current record
platinum metal group prices have helped to increase Lonmin’s value by 45
percent more than the offer. Mnguni said that given the pending offer grossly undervalues
Lonmin, “we see an increased risk that more than 25% of the shareholders will
vote against the offer.” Completion of the acquisition of Lonmin remains subject to
the satisfaction or (where applicable) waiver of the outstanding conditions set
out in the Lonmin scheme document. The conditions include, amongst others, the
relevant approvals of Lonmin shareholders and the approval of the scheme by the
Court. Subject to the satisfaction or waiver (as applicable) of the conditions,
the deal is expected to become effective on 7 June 2019. If the transaction, which first announced in December 2017, goes
through, the proposed combination with Lonmin positions the enlarged
Sibanye-Stillwater group as a leading mine-to-market producer of PGMs in South
Africa. The realisation of significant synergies between the operations, which
will deliver longer term benefits for all stakeholders of both companies is
expected to result in this being a value accretive transaction for
Sibanye-Stillwater shareholders. Furthermore, the sizeable combined resource base, with its
pipeline of advanced and early stage projects, also offers significant growth
and value upside potential under appropriate economic and market circumstances.