Kangra Coal made history recently when it hosted a celebration to announce plans to allocate free-carry shares to workers and local communities for the first time since the mine was established in 1957. Workers were given a day off to be part of the celebration with the mine managers and local community members. This was an initiative of Menar, the investment company that purchased Kangra through its subsidiary Canyon Coal in September 2018. Kangra is the first mine to
allocate shares to workers and communities since Mineral Resources Minister
Gwede Mantashe issued Mining Charter III. The charter requires mining companies
to allocate shares to workers and communities. Billed as the ‘Kangra New
Beginning’, the event was held near the mine, which is located in the Mkhondo
municipality. The municipal leaders, traditional authority leaders and other
community leaders joined the celebration. Workers and community members ululated when Menar MD Vuslat Bayoglu presented symbolic certificates to signify the 5% allocation to each. The shares will be held under separate trusts. “In the next few months, the
legal process to give effect to the allocation will be concluded, but we
thought we should make our intentions firmly clear right from the start so that
you can assess us against our undertaking,” he said. Speakers at ceremony lauded the
initiative, saying it laid the foundation for the redefinition of the
relationship between workers, community and the new mine owners. Chairman of Menar Mpumelelo
Mkhabela said the share allocation to employees and community was different to
the usual employee share-ownership schemes were shares are granted for a
limited period. “This is a permanent
arrangement. For as long as you work at Kangra, you will own shares. If the
company makes profits and dividends are declared, you will also benefit from
dividends that will accrue to the employee trust,” Mkhabela explained. Canyon director Dr Sakhile
Ngcobo provided a broad overview of Kangra's operations, explaining that the
company is involved in the mining and processing of thermal coal, through the
operation of an underground mine, along with several opencast pits, located in
the Mpumalanga coalfields. Kangra currently produces about
2 Mtpa of saleable coal with the majority of its high volatile coal sold on the
export market, and the rest sold to independent users. Kangra aims to ensure it
implements employment equity targets at management level and review them on a
regular basis. On capital goods, services and consumables Kangra pledges to
give preference to historically disadvantaged South African (HDSA) companies on
a progressive basis through capacity development programmes. Kangra will endeavour to employ
from local communities and provide access to training opportunities. In his keynote address Mkhondo
Executive Mayor Vusi Motha urged communities to be orderly when they raise
concerns. They should not close off roads during protests and they should use
community structures to raise concerns. "We must not scare
investors off. The new owners must be given the opportunity to prove
themselves. Let's work with them and let's contribute to stability in our
communities," Motha said. Bayoglu said the ceremony was a
practical expression of inclusive growth, one of South Africa’s noble
socio-economic aspirations. “We are changing the narrative for the mutual benefit
of all stakeholders,” he concluded.