Date: 1 - 2 August 2019 Location: Kingdom Hotel, Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe Meet over 300 high-level decision making delegate attending the Zimbabwe Mining Investment Conference 2019 on the 1st - 2nd August 2019 at the 5 Star Kingdom Hotel in Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe. Early Booking Required. Build relationships with the most important local, regional and international senior executives involved in Zimbabwe’s mining sector. We are bringing together mining companies, Government stakeholders and a broad range of investors including sovereign wealth funds, Institutional investors, fund managers, corporate investors, offtakers, mining consultants, private equity managers, debt equity financiers, asset managers, investment banks, frontier funds, impact investors, family offices, DFIs, MFIs, and the media – make sure you join us to connect with these key stakeholders. Zimbabwe is on a path to becoming one of the leading mining investment destinations in Africa. See you at the Zimbabwe Mining Investments Conference 2019, Kingdom Hotel, Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe on the 1st - 2nd August 2019. The Conference will discuss as well as showcase the vast investment opportunities as well as existing and developing projects in Zimbabwe’s growing mining sector. Zimbabwe is committed to supporting and protecting investors. ALL FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN ZIMBABWE IS 100% SAFE. Zimbabwe is endeavouring to be amongst the most attractive and safest investment destinations with clear & predictable investments policies and incentives. Foreign Investors can now own up to 100% in all mining projects with the exception of platinum and diamonds. Zimbabwe has vast mineral wealth over 60 minerals including platinum, chrome, gold, lithium, coal, tin, copper, limestone, Coal Bed Methane,natural gas, granite and more. Zimbabwe has the 2nd largest Platinum and chrome deposits in the world, is the 5th largest producer of lithium in the world.Zimbabwe has 765 billion cubic metres of measured coal-bed methane resources and 30 billion tonnes of coal and 21 known deposits Zimbabwe offers a truly a once in a lifetime opportunity. The country’s 800 mines have capacity to earn US$18 billion per annum but were only turning out about US$2,8 billion annually since 2009. This represents about a tenth of the sector’s full potential and translates to an incredible opportunity for investors, and the Government is fully committed to creating an enabling environment for investors. Zimbabwe is on the path to being one of the leading mining investment destinations in the Africa and has great potential to attract USD$12 Billion over the next 5 years. EXPECTED 2019 DELEGATES INCLUDE EXECUTIVES FROM: MMCZ, Marubeni, Prospect Resources ,Transet , ZCDC, Itochu ,ZMDC, Old Mutual, JOGMEG, Grant Thornton ,Investec, POSCO, Jindal Africa, European Investment Bank, MMG Capital, Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, Anglo American, SRK, Metallon Corporation, ZMDC , Tembo Capital, African Chrome Fields, Stanbic Bank, ZCCM, JP Morgan Asset Management, Zimplats, NKC Africa, Rio Tinto, Premier African Minerals, Resource Capital Funds, Bikita Minerals, Korea Investment Corporation, Renaissance Capital, JSE, LCT Resources, Glencore, Mayer Brown, London Stock Exchange, CIC, Vedanta, IDC, The Financial Times, Bloomberg, Reuters, CNBC Africa TV, CGTN TV and many more. Conference Website : www.miningreport.co/zimbabwe  To Book :  www.zimbabwemining.eventbrite.com Event Website: www.miningreport.co/zimbabwe Mandy Tel : 44 7721 345 105  WhatsApp Tel : 44 7760 606 190  WhatsApp Conference website : www.miningreport.co/zimbabwe TICKETS : International Delegates:Early Bird  USD$1200-00  Standard Tickets $1800-00  Conference Day $2000-00 Zimbabwe Delegates:Early Bird USD$ 750-00    Standard Tickets USD$ 990-00 We have a limited number of Complimentary Tickets , to secure a Complimentary Tickets please kindly send us your Name, Company Name, Title/Position, Email and Mobile Number. We have additional Complimentary Tickets for investors, financiers and senior executives from regional and international mining finance companies. so kindly feel free to distribute this to your contacts. Complimentary Tickets for investors - *Investors can attend Complimentary * Complimentary Investor Delegate passes are reserved solely for professional investors who's primary function is considered buy-side i.e. investing funds directly into mining companies and projects and are not for a mining company or a company that provides products or services to the metals & mining industry. Qualified buy-side may include private equity, asset managers, investment managers, hedge funds, sovereign wealth funds, venture capitals private wealth managers, family offices, mutual funds, pension funds, SOEs and approved private investors and HNWIs. Please note that representatives from investment banks, financial advisories and corporate finance providers are not eligible. Complimentary Tickets are limited and reserved for investors and for Guests Invited by Our Sponsors .We have a limited number reserved subscribers of our Media Partners. They require validation. To Book Tickets Online: www.zimmining.eventbrite.comEvent Website: www.miningreport.co/zimbabwe