ASX-listed African lithium developer, Prospect Resources has reported significant improvements to the global lithium recovery for its 87%-owned Arcadia lithium project in Zimbabwe. The recovery improvements are as a result of petalite DMS test work. Following the release of the Definitive Feasibility Study (DFS)
for Arcadia in November 2018, Prospect Resources has continued with bulk
metallurgical variability testing of bulk ore samples taken from existing open
pit exposure of the Main Pegmatite (MP) zone within the proposed pit outline at
Arcadia. The test programmes focussed principally on extending the project
understanding of petalite recovery by dense medium separation (DMS) and spiral
treatment, and improving spodumene recovery from exposed MP ore by froth
flotation. The results of the DMS bulk test work, together with the results
of a review of the metallurgical database support the recovery factors employed
in the DFS and indicate the potential for an overall increase in project lithium
recovery from 67.9% to +70%. Spiral treatment of -0.6 mm MP ore is currently in progress. This bulk test work was undertaken at independent third-party
facilities in order to provide impartiality and ensure quality control. The three stage DMS test work programme confirmed the amenability
of Arcadia ore to deliver premium low iron petalite concentrate product
containing +4% Li₂O and from bulk MP flotation testing demonstrate a
significant improvement in spodumene recovery and concentrate grade, which
surpass the data available to the DFS. By maintaining its focus on petalite-rich MP ore, which will form
the bulk of run of mine ore for the first two years of mine life, Prospect
Resources aims to further optimise design and operating parameters in order to
de-risk the plant construction and project ramp-up to production. The extensive metallurgical test work programme will exceed
similar programmes completed by peer projects, given Arcadia’s ore body
contains petalite in addition to commonly produced spodumene. Prospect Resources’ MD, Sam Hosack, says the test work results
demonstrated the quality of the project and the company’s ability to de-risk
and optimise the project prior to development. “The investment we have made into technical validation and value
engineering for the project, supports our ability to successfully deliver on
the Arcadia lithium project. The company has attracted market leading
professionals to join the team and lead the technical development, including
individuals with extensive experience in DMS, gravity and flotation processing
of lithium bearing minerals.” “Prospect will continue to invest in building upon Arcadia’s
existing strong project economics by optimising the plant construction, pit
design and efficient operation of the project.” With extended petalite recovery and concentration bulk test work
nearing completion, the company is undertaking spodumene metallurgical bulk
test work, to conclude the post-DFS test work and develop a revised global
lithium recovery result.