Eurasian Resources Group recently celebrated its fifth anniversary with a gala reception in Luxembourg. The event was
combined with the official opening of the honorary consulate of the Republic of
Kazakhstan in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and held in the presence of Xavier
Bettel, prime minister of Luxembourg. Chairman of the board of directors of Eurasian Resources Group (ERG), Dr Alexander Machkevitch, said: “This year marks the fifth anniversary of ERG’s business in Luxembourg, and we are also celebrating 25 years of our operations in Kazakhstan. "We are proud to be considered a successful representative of Kazakhstan business in the Grand Duchy. We are encouraged by the establishment of an honorary consulate that will further strengthen business cooperation between Kazakhstan and Luxembourg.” Prime Minister Bettel, stated: “The opening of an honorary consulate of Kazakhstan in
Luxembourg is a testament to our positive partnership and I believe its
establishment will further strengthen our collaborative ties. The two countries
retain relations based on trust and mutual respect, which is equally
important.” Focused on responsible business development Over the last five years of its business in Luxembourg, ERG has implemented a number of initiatives focused on business development and strengthening the company’s leading position in the global mining sector, as well as on the innovative development of the entire mining industry and setting new and higher business standards. CEO of ERG and honorary consul of Kazakhstan to the Grand Duchy of
Luxembourg, Benedikt Sobotka, said: “We are honoured to be a representative of Kazakhstan business in
Luxembourg. Today, ERG employs more than 85,000 people globally. “ERG is among the key players in the global ferrochrome and cobalt markets, a strategic partner of the World Economic Forum, co-founder of the Global Battery Alliance – which I am proud to co-chair – and a leading participant in China’s Belt and Road Initiative. I believe that the opening of the Honorary Consulate will have a positive effect on the development of bilateral business cooperation.” ERG is a leading diversified natural resources group with integrated mining, processing, energy, logistics, and marketing operations. The group operates in 15 countries across four continents. In Africa ERG mines and processes copper and cobalt ore and
has also recently launched the Metalkol Roan Tailings Reclamation (RTR) project,
a major tailings reprocessing operation in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo. ERG has further development projects in thermal coal, manganese, platinum, bauxite and fluorspar in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Mali and Mozambique.