Following changes at board, executive and senior management levels in February 2019, coal mining and distribution group Wescoal has made additional appointments to key senior management roles. Wescoal has appointed Enos Lentsoane as the executive head of commercial and investments effective 1 May 2019. Lentsoane has over 12 years’ investment banking experience, with the latter six years focusing on mining advisory at Nedbank’s Corporate and Investment Banking division  and Cinga Capital. During
his time at Nedbank, Lentsoane advised Wescoal on a number of transactions
including among others, the black economic empowerment (BEE) transaction that
saw the company becoming majority black-owned, the acquisition of Keaton Energy
and various capital raising transactions. Lentsoane
will be responsible for identifying potential acquisitions, partnerships and
investments that align with strategic growth initiatives of the company. Moreover,
Wescoal has appointed mining executive, Zanele Sibisi as the COO of Mining,
also effective 1 May 2019. Sibisi will be responsible for the management and leadership of Wescoal Mining’s three operating mines, Elandspruit, Vanggatfontein and Khanyisa to driveoperational stability and efficiency. It is envisaged that she will also be responsible for more mining operations in the future, as projects such as Arnot mine and Moabsvelden are transitioned from project development to operations. Sibisi
comes with over 18 years of coal mining experience in both underground and opencast
operations, with the last 10 years of her career at South32, in the South
Africa coal division, where she occupied various key managerial and operational
roles. Prior to that she also held leadership roles at Anglo American Coal
South Africa where she moved through the
ranks and left as a mine manager in 2008 in one of the underground operations. Growth
strategy and projects update Wescoal’s
continued strategic drive for growth has seen much activity and management time
invested during 2019. The most significant growth project was the offer to acquire Universal Coal which, after an extensive process, was rejected due to another offer being considered by the board of Universal Coal. Projects concluded under corporate activity during the year include the disposal of non-core assets, Intibane Colliery and Leeuwbraakfontein Colliery, and significantly the acquisition of Arnot mine and the Khanyisa Triangle operation. A
number of projects in progress hold potential for significant value enhancement
and include development of Moabsvelden project and Vanggatfontein extension. Arnot mine On
28 February 2019, Wescoal acquired a 50% indirect interest in the Arnot mine
subject to certain suspensive conditions. The Arnot Mine is expected to be
around a 2 Mtpa asset when mining activity resumes. On
1 May 2019, the Department of Mineral Resources announced the granting of consent
(Section 11 approval) to proceed with the Arnot mine acquisition, subject to remaining
approvals by the competition authorities and Eskom. The
agreement to partner with surrounding communities and erstwhile employees of
Exxaro Coal Mpumalanga, who were previously retrenched at Arnot mine in
December 2015, is a first of its kind in South Africa as a broad-based BEE
transaction which not only secures employment for such previously retrenched employees
but also provides employees and affected communities around the Arnot mine with
equity participation, as outlined in the 2018 Mining Charter III. Moabsvelden Acquired through the Keaton acquisition, Moabsvelden is adjacent to Vanggatfontein mine, 16 km southeast of Delmas. With a 47.8 Mt resource, Moabsvelden has the potential to be developed into a 1.5 – 2 Mtpa ROM operation with coal washing and processing at Vanggatfontein
mine, or to be sold directly as a crush-and-screen ROM product. Wescoal
is currently negotiating with potential customers, including Eskom, for coal
offtake and/or supply agreements. The
asset is fully permitted and the mine development plan is an opencast project with
the aim of producing first coal during the second half of this calendar year. Strategic
priorities and outlook Wescoal
remains focused on its strategy for long term sustainable growth, to be
achieved in a measured and responsibly managed way. The company’s immediate
priorities are to resume normalised production at Vanggatfontein, to progress
the extension project at Vanggatfontein and the development of the Moabsvelden
project, which form part of the plan to optimise the Keaton asset base. Wescoal
continues to evaluate various inorganic growth opportunities in the market on a
case-by-case basis. However, no imminent announcement should be expected in
this regard.