The SACEEC Exporter of the Year Awards were presented at the inaugural Local Southern African Manufacturing Expo (LME) on 22 May 2019. The Expo, which is endorsed by the Premier of Gauteng, David Makhura, was the culmination of a collaborative effort between the South African Capital Equipment Export Council (SACEEC) and organisers Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery. Eric Bruggeman, CEO at SACEEC, says: “It is fitting and certainly no mere coincidence, that the first-ever SACEEC Exporter of the Year Awards took place at the Local Southern African Manufacturing Expo. "The Expo is the perfect showcase for the vast array of products available from local manufacturers. There is a wealth of talent in Southern African manufacturing and SACEEC is thrilled that the industry is being placed in the spotlight. "There is no doubt in our minds that the quality and innovation being exhibited at the Expo equals, and even exceeds, that which is available on the global stage. “The SACEEC Exporter of the Year Awards allow us to further recognise the supreme efforts invested by a number of these local manufacturers. There were a large number of entries, all of which are notable by their focused drive to provide products that are characterised by out-of-the-box thinking, coupled with careful and systematic attention to detail. "Selecting the finalists, and later the winners, was an extremely hard task since all qualifying companies have excelled in their respective field of expertise,” Bruggeman continues. “The following
award winners are to be commended on the sterling efforts they have made in
putting South African manufacturing on the map,” says Charlene Hefer,
portfolio director for Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery. Exporter of the Year Small (turnover of <R25-million): Exporter of the Year Medium (turnover of R25-million - R200-million): Exporter of the Year Large (turnover of >R200-million): Exporter of the Year Services: Exporter of the Year Africa (turnover of >R100-million): Exporter of the Year Africa (turnover of <100-million): Emerging Exporter of the Year T-Legacy Components SACEEC Member of the Year 2018: To visit the Local Southern African Manufacturing Expo 2021 or to find out more information about the exhibition and the seminar sessions visit the website at www.localmanufacturingexpo.co.za