Commissioning of AIM-listed AfriTin’s processing plant at its Uis tin project in Namibia has commenced and is being conducted in a phased approach. The commissioning will start with
the testing of mechanical installations and progress to continuous ore
beneficiation. The plant consists of two main parts: a 4-stage crushing circuit and a 3-stage concentrating circuit. The C4 stage of commissioning, which
involves passing ore material through the circuit, is scheduled for end of May
2019 for the crushing circuit and end of June 2019 for the concentrating
circuit. During the commissioning, the plant will produce initial tin concentrate; however, hot commissioning and continuous plant operations will likely commence in July 2019.  This represents a slight deviation from previous guidance AfriTin stating that commercial tin concentrate production will commence in Q2, 2019. The is due to longer than expected
lead times in the procurement of equipment, material and construction services. Commissioning will be followed by a
production ramp up spanning four months with the goal of achieving design
capacity before the end of Q4, 2019. Mining contractors have been
mobilised and have commenced with continuous mining operations at the Uis mine. Initially, outcropping pegmatites of
the V1 and V2 ore bodies will be targeted, utilising an open cast mining method
and production will be ramped up according to the schedule of the processing
plant. AfriTin is conducting overburden
stripping at a ratio of 1.5 t of overburden to 1 t of ore so as to ensure the
sustainable exposure of ore over the life of the Phase 1 operation. The company is in the process of
recruiting operational personnel.  Approximately one third of the total
planned complement of 90 people have been appointed, including the entire management
team. General infrastructure to the
operation is now in place, including water supply from groundwater sources and
electrical power supply from diesel generating sets. AfriTin has concluded an agreement with
the Namibian Power Corporation for provision of grid electrical power. 
Construction of the infrastructure required for the grid power connection has
started. The Company has completed
exploration drilling (twenty holes) aimed at validating the historical mineral
resource information by SRK in 1985, for ISCOR, for the V1 and V2
pegmatites.  The first five holes have been announced (refer to
announcement of 20 May 2019) and outstanding assay results are expected during
June 2019. At Uis, formerly the world’s largest hard-rock tin mine, management are employing a two-fold strategy: Commenting
on the developments CEO Anthony Viljoen states, “We have
been looking forward to this exciting phase of the project since breaking first
ground at the end of 2018.  While there is work to be done to achieve
steady state production, the significant step of commencing production and
first concentrate is a momentous milestone for the company.” “Bringing
a project of this scale and stature into a supply constrained tin market, less
than two years since our admission to AIM, I believe this places Afritin as a
player of significance in the global tin market.”