Hummingbird Resources has signed a 25-year Mineral Development Agreement (MDA) with the government of Liberia over a land package of approximately 2 000 km2, which includes the company's 4.2Moz Dugbe Gold Project. Liberia –Hummingbird
Resources stated that the MDA has now been signed with the Liberian government
and approved into law by the president of Liberia and published in handbills
signifying the completion of all necessary steps for the MDA to become immediately
effective. This will provide the necessary long-term
stability and framework for the next steps at Dugbe. The Dugbe MDA is the first
gold MDA to be negotiated with the government of Liberia following a discovery
in over 10 years and represents a huge milestone for both the government and
the Hummingbird Resources. Ready for next steps Dan Betts, CEO of Hummingbird Resources commented, "The
completion of the MDA is an important milestone for Hummingbird Resources and
Liberia.  Hummingbird, with this agreement in place, can now look towards
taking the next steps at Dugbe in the best interests of all stakeholders. The Dugbe Gold
Project was Hummingbird Resources’ first asset and the original permit that was
granted sits within this MDA area.  A number of our existing team (both in
Liberia and in the UK) have been involved in this project for over a decade and
I am pleased they are still part of the team at this critical juncture.  I
am proud to say that we developed the largest gold asset in Liberia from grass
roots exploration and, while our recent focus has been in Mali, the
significance and scale of this asset is not to be underestimated.  We look
forward to updating the market further as we develop our
plans." Molewuleh B. Gray, chairman of the National Investment Commission of
Liberia, added, "Our government
is committed to resuscitating the mining sector. President George Weah, in
support of our 5-year Development Plan, continues to drive reforms to
demonstrate to the world that Liberia is open and ready for business." About Dugbe The Dugbe Gold Project has Resources currently totalling 4.2Moz of gold and a completed NI 43-101 compliant PEA on the project showing a 29% IRR and $186m NPV at a $1 300 gold price. The Project is the largest gold project in Liberia and is complemented with an extremely large and largely unexplored land holding, with a number of potentially significant targets identified from early stage work including aeromagnetic surveys and stream sampling.