Pump and Abrasion Technologies is globally respected as a manufacturer and supplier of heavy-duty slurry pumping solutions to the mining, minerals processing, industrial and agricultural industries. This is thanks to its range of premium quality slurry pumps, offered at competitive prices and with unparalleled service. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 5, 2019 You can read the full digital magazine here or subscribe here to receive a print copy “Currently operating in nine countries, Pump and Abrasion Technologies (PAB) is well established to ensure that every client receives the best possible service. "We pride ourselves on providing an all-round exceptional experience with a dedicated sales team on standby 24/7. This is backed by a strong technical team, comprehensive application engineering and inhouse design capabilities,” says Zak van der Westhuizen, head of sales and marketing at PAB. Founded in 2004 and based in Centurion, South
Africa, PAB grew in an organic, responsible and sustainable manner. This is
based on a culture of continuous improvement in striving for excellence in
everything it does whilst keeping its customer’s needs the focal point of the
business. From humble beginnings, PAB expanded its
product range, which in turn provided greater traction in new industries and
commodities as well as opening up uncharted African territories such as
Botswana, Ghana, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leonne,
Mozambique, Namibia, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe. In 2016, the company introduced the CURVE range of slurry pumps to the market, which sparked a new era in how slurry pumping solutions were perceived. “An imperative consideration in the development of the CURVE range was to minimise the adaption cost of new technology. The CURVE technology was designed in such a manner that it could be retrofitted to legacy pumping systems with minimal changes. Existing equipment with outdated technologies can thus be upgraded without the need to change the base, mechanical-end or piping,” adds Jaco Buitendag, MD at PAB. As the CURVE range was designed from a clean sheet principle, five
key points were considered and became the focus, namely; The introduction of CURVE further entrenches PAB as a proudly
South African, true slurry pump OEM. This has further prompted and accelerated
the international expansion of the company. With the overwhelming success of CURVE in the African market and increasing demand from international clientele, PAB has opened the first international branch in Australia in 2017, followed by Canada in 2018 and the imminent opening of a USA branch in 2019. These locations were chosen due to the fact that the best available technology offered by the CURVE meets the industry standard and preference. PAB’s combined factory areas span more than 25 000 m2 and consists of in-house foundries, machine shops, rubber manufacturing facilities, repair and assembly workshops, and warehousing, to support high-quality, high-volume production and delivery requirements. Business divisions include the sale of new products, spare parts, reconditioning services, application engineering and after sales service support through their recently launched field service division. According to Nicole Grinaker, general manager at PAB, since the founding years, Pump & Abrasion Technologies has
sold in excess of 8000 heavy duty slurry pumps to industry. “To cater for unique and varied applications, our range of slurry
pump materials has evolved to include 27% and 35% chrome, low carbon, natural
and synthetic rubbers, abrasion and acid resistant polyurethanes, ceramics and
stainless steel,” says James Pienaar, sales director at PAB. “We pride ourselves on providing a seamless acquisition experience for our clients, with a dedicated sales team on standby to ensure that every client receives the best possible service. "Our TUV Rhineland ISO 9001:2015 certification ensures delivery of customer requirements without exception,” says Gräbe de Villiers, head of technical and engineering at PAB. PAB remains focused on being a preferred supplier of easy,
cost-effective and reliable pumping solutions to the mining, industrial and
agricultural sectors by striving to achieve and deliver premium quality
products, engineering excellence, service excellence, continued product
innovation and an unwavering commitment to the highest ethical standards.