AIM-listed diamond miner BlueRock Diamonds plc, will implement a new mining plan at its Kareevlei diamond mine in the Kimberley region of South Africa in order to increase production with a target of becoming cash flow positive at a corporate level. In order to facilitate the revised plan the board has
restructured the management of the company and has raised additional funding
from strategic and other investors. The company has raised an aggregate of £937 000 (before expenses) via the issue of 937,000,000 share. In addition, certain directors and a former director of the
company have indicated their intention to subscribe for a further aggregate
£45,000 via the issue of a further 45,000,000 shares which will take the total
gross amount raised is expected to be £982 000. The new funds will be sufficient to reach the compay’s
medium term goal of processing in excess of 400 000 tpa (2018: 190 000 t).  The target for 2019 is between 280 000 t and
330 000 t.  The board expects that Bluerock
will be profitable in the second half of 2019 and expects the company to be
self-funding going forward. The board is conscious of continued shareholder dilution
but, following further review of the company’s operational plan, considered
that the fundraising was necessary in order for Bluerock to invest in Kareevlei
to enable it to implement the required operational changes to sufficiently
build production and meet its strategic goals. The funds raised will be used to implement the company’s
revised mine plan and for investment in production improvements including: The fundraising will also provide working capital to fund
operations until target throughputs are reached. Gus Simbanegavi has been appointed as CEO of the company’s principal operating company Kareevlei Mining. Simbanegavi is a mining engineer and has extensive experience of working in mining operations in South Africa and Zimbabwe and has previously worked closely with the company’s Chairman Mike Houston. Importantly, his experience encompasses both small and large
scale mining operations including extensive open cast mining.  His initial focus will be on increasing
production levels and his short term and long term remuneration has been
structured to reflect this. Mike Houston will become executive chairman to oversee the
transformation of the company to profitability with the expectation that Simbanegavi
will be appointed as CEO of BlueRock once the initial task of reaching and
stabilising production at agreed targets has been completed. Adam Waugh is standing down today as CEO of BlueRock and Kareevlei
Mining. The mining right for Kareevlei is due for renewal in August
2019 and the application for renewal is in an advanced state. The company does
not expect any issues in the renewal process. The new Mining Charter came into force in December 2018,
although it is under judicial review. 
Under the new Mining Charter there is a requirement to increase the
Broadly Based Economic Empowerment partner’s stake from 26% to 30% within 5
years from the date of renewal of the licence, although this is one of the
elements of the Mining Charter which is under judicial review. Given the structure of the shareholders’ agreement from the
Company to Kareevlei Mining Limited (“KVM”), which requires the loan to
BlueRock, which currently stands at over £6 million, to be repaid before any
dividends are declared in KVM, this is expected to have little or no economic
impact to the Group. Mike Houston, Chairman comments: “The key challenge for management will be achieving the economies of scale and this is largely centred around material handling of what can at times be a difficult product in both the mining and plant operations. This requires a disciplined, innovative and technically competent management team and I believe we have been able to put this team in place now." "Improvements have already been implemented which will have a material impact on throughput and cashflow. The capital raised will allow management to make further improvements and importantly de-risk the business. The optimisation of the mine plan and right sizing the cost structure will be key objectives for management in the short term." Accordingly, following this necessary investment, the board now expects the company to be self-funding going forward. 