Exclusive interview with Helmut Schgeiner, Technical Director at VDMA Mining (the German Association of Mining Suppliers), the convenors of the first German pavilion at the upcoming DRC Mining Week from 19-21 June in Lubumbashi. Welcome to DRC Mining Week! Why the decision to bring a country pavilion to Lubumbashi?VDMA Mining, the German Association of Mining Suppliers, visited DRC several times in the last years to learn about and to get to know the mining sector. We also attended the DRC Mining Week in the past years. Our members, German OEMs of mining equipment, are very impressed by the business opportunities here in DRC, so we decided to come to Lubumbashi. Which companies will be represented on the German pavilion?For the first time at the DRC Mining Week as exhibitors, we will start with a middle sized German Pavilion with the companies allmineral, Nilos, Putzmeister, Steinert, voestalpine and Vulkan. In addition, the visitors will get information about the 150 member companies of VDMA Mining. What products or projects will the German pavilion display at the event in Lubumbashi this year?The exhibitors will present a wide range of mining technology: Industrial drive solutions, processing technology, conveyor belts, industrial rubber, hydraulic backfilling system, mechanical engineering, magnetic and sensor-based sorting and separation, welding consumables. How big are the German interests in DRC mining sector? The Germans are very interested to continue the existing business and to develop new contacts. The miners in DRC are highly interested in excellently developed machines, durable and sustainable technology. And are there particular skills that German mining experts and suppliers can share with DRC mining companies?Of course. The mining business is a specialty of the German sciences. Germany has a very long mining tradition with the world’s oldest mining universities with more than 250 years of mining knowledge. So the German mining experts have really a lot of expertise. It is part of the German business to share knowledge with their mining partners, because perfect equipment runs better with well-trained experts and employees. How important is DRC Mining Week as an annual forum for the mining sector in this region?We think the DRC Mining Week is a very impressive forum for the regional mining business. The combination of conference and exhibition offers a lot of opportunities to get in contact with very interesting business partners. What will be your message at DRC Mining Week this year?Beyond Quality, German Suppliers Offer Safe and Smart Solutions Anything you would like to add?To give you an impression of German leading technology: we are partner of the Bauma Fair in Germany, the world’s biggest fair for construction machines and mining equipment. We had this year more than 620 000 visitors in Munich, Germany. Of course it is not possible for everybody to travel to Germany, but we will be glad to bring more of the German manufacturers to DRC in the next years.