Multi-listed Ivanhoe Mines has appointed Tony S. Giardini as its new president. Lars-Eric Johansson who has served as Ivanhoe’s President and CEO will retire at the end of June 2019. Johansson will work alongside Giardini until then to ensure a smooth and seamless transition. Giardini’s extensive experience as a senior-level finance and mining executive positions him well to oversee the construction and operation of Ivanhoe’s three world-scale mine development projects in Southern Africa ─ Kamoa-Kakula, Platreef and Kipushi. “For more than three decades, Tony has built an impressive track record of strategic, financial and commercial accomplishments in the mining sector,” says Ivanhoe co-chairman Robert Friedland. “We worked closely together at the original Ivanhoe Mines, where he was instrumental in our successful financing, development and construction of the Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine in Mongolia. "He is a trusted leader, and I could not be more pleased about his appointment to this critical role as we look to fast-track development at each of our three principal mining projects.” Giardini most recently was Executive Vice President and CFO of Toronto-based Kinross Gold, a position he held since December 2012. From 2006 to 2012, Giardini was CFO of the original Ivanhoe Mines (now Turquoise Hill Resources). Prior to that, he spent 10 years at Placer Dome, where he held a series of senior financial positions, including Vice President and Treasurer. Giardini is a Chartered Accountant and a Certified Public Accountant, and spent 12 years with the international accounting firm KPMG before joining Placer Dome. “It is a great privilege to once again work alongside Robert and the rest of the Ivanhoe team to lead Ivanhoe into our next chapter of growth,” says Giardini. “Ivanhoe is uniquely positioned for success with three high-grade, long-life deposits that put the company on a path to becoming a world-scale, diversified mining company. While Ivanhoe now is transitioning to becoming an operator, it still has tremendous exploration potential on its 100%-owned Western Foreland exploration ground right next door to Kamoa-Kakula. "I look forward to being part of the team that continues to grow Ivanhoe through the development of additional tier-one discoveries.” Tadeu Carneiro, Ivanhoe’s Lead Independent Director, adds: “The Board unanimously agrees that Giardini’s leadership and experience with mine development and his proven ability to deliver operational results, make him the right person to succeed Johansson as the company’s president as Ivanhoe moves from explorer to operator.”