The Minerals Council South Africa has launched the Khumbul’ekhaya initiative, a CEO-led strategy on health and safety, developed and led by the Minerals Council CEO Zero Harm Forum. The aim of the
initiative is to drive and sustain the mining industry’s pursuit of Zero Harm,
with a emphasis on eliminating fatalities. Significant strides in improving industry safety and health performance in recent years have been possible through the collaborative efforts of employees and unions, the support of the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy (DMRE), and mining companies. ICMM releases 2018 safety data of company members Collaborative
initiatives – such as the Mine Health and Safety Council (MHSC) 2014 Occupational
Health and Safety Summit Milestones and the Centre of Excellence, the establishment
of the MOSH Learning Hub, the work being undertaken by the Mandela Mining
Precinct, and the CEO Zero Harm Forum – have made important contributions. All these efforts
have helped to contribute to an 88% decrease in the number of fatalities since 1993
as well as reductions in occupational health-related deaths. However, the industry
takes the view that no fatality is acceptable, and their incidence needs to be
eliminated. The increase in
fatalities in 2017 – the first regression in a decade – resulted in deep introspection
among CEOs. It prompted the Minerals Council Board to urgently initiate several measures to address this trend, including intense scrutiny of the major causes of accidents, research conducted through the MHSC and the launch of the National Day of Safety and Health in Mining 2018. DMR reports marginal decrease in fatalities in 2018 A massive combined
effort by companies, unions and the DMRE in mid- to late-2018 saw a gratifying
improvement. In addition, a
facilitated workshop involving 34 industry CEOs in January this year, provided
the impetus for a revitalised strategy – Khumbul’ekhaya. Khumbul’ekhaya is a Nguni word for “remember home” and recognises the devastating impact that work-related deaths have on families. It intends to drive home an enhanced safety and health message. Mining health safety – 7 common risks to protect yourself against Khumbul’ekhaya, which
is complementary to and supportive of existing initiatives, has four critical
drivers: Speaking at the launch, Themba Mkhwanazi, Chair of the CEO Zero Harm Forum, said: “At the centre of it all is the recognition that the quality of safety and health in the industry starts with us and depends on us, the industry’s leadership.” “Every life matters” – Roger Baxter Minerals Council CEO
Roger Baxter noted: “I want to give full
recognition to our social partners and the positive contributions they have
made. The regulator, particularly the Chief Inspector of Mines, and the
unions.” Matthew Grant, from AMCU, speaking on behalf of the unions said: “We welcome the Khumbul’ekhaya
initiative, especially the strides made by CEO Zero Harm Forum over the years. “But, while we are
doing well, we are not doing well enough, particularly in respect of falls of
ground as a priority. Profitability can be achieved through the imperative of
health and safety. “We know our role as
organised labour, and we will play that role.” David Msiza, Chief
Inspector of Mines and the Chair of the MHSC, commented that, “We shouldn’t
lose sight of where we have come from. Decades ago, no one believed that Zero Harm
was possible. “If we maintain the
reduction we have had, this will be the safest year ever.” He noted the
significant challenge of safety issues related to women in mining and at home
and indicated that the MHSC would be focusing on this. In the coming months, Minerals Council member companies will be hosting their own Khumbul’ekhaya launches as they hold their own health and safety days, with CEOs intent on leading these programmes. 