Kal Tire has announced the certification of its new carbon calculator that determines fuel and carbon emissions saved by retreading earthmover tyres compared to buying new. With
that, Kal Tire is launching its Maple Program, which quantifies a customer’s
environmental impact as they grow their fleet with retreads “We have long claimed that our retread products are beneficial to the environment, but now we are able to quantify those benefits and recognise customers for opting to retread earthmover tyres,” says Darren Flint, vice president, tyre lifetime services and vice president, European and West African operations, Kal Tire’s Mining Tire Group. Kal Tire showcases commitment to Southern Africa “Retreading
reduces a tyre’s operating cost per hour, and it has become increasingly
important to customers to reduce their impact on the environment. “We
look forward to providing customers with actual data on the environmental
savings they achieve.” The
Maple Program uses data from Kal Tire’s new carbon calculator to award
customers with one to five stars according to the percentage of their fleet
running retreads rather than new tyres. The
program is first launching in Chile and the UK, with plans to roll out in other
regions Kal Tire operates In 2021, new environmental laws in Chile will dictate responsible tyre recycling, of which retreading is an official option. Read more articles about the environment Pedro
Pacheco, vice president, Latin America operations, Kal Tire’s Mining Tire
Group, says Chilean customers have already embraced the Maple Program and see
the value in receiving the certificate “This
program gives Kal Tire a framework to promote the environmental value of our
retread product and process and provides solutions for customers within this
new law. As
we can offer incentive to increasing the number of tyres retreaded, we’re
giving tyres another life at a much lower cost and environmental impact, with
the added benefit of reducing the number of casings going into the waste
stream.” One
of the largest quarrying groups in the UK has been benefitting from Kal Tire
retreads for several years, retreading hundreds of tyres each year. They
are among the first UK companies to receive the Maple Program certificate
highlighting how much oil and carbon emissions they’ve saved by retreading
versus buying new tyres. Two
years of research and development went into the carbon calculator, which
included analysing more than 125,000 Kal Tire retreading production records
spanning the past 20 years. After
a six-month approval phase, the carbon calculator was validated by SCS Global
Services, an international leader in third-party environmental certification. The
verification applies to all Kal Tire retreading facilities located in Canada,
the UK, West Africa and Chile, as well as their newest retread facility opening
in Mexico, October 2019. “The
results were very positive, and now we can confidently share these oil and
emissions savings with customers,” says Flint. “Our
core goal throughout all operations is to prolong the life of
the tyres that keep our customers’ fleets running. The Maple Program for
retreads is just the first step in ensuring that the environmental benefit of
keeping tyres rolling and out of scrap piles is both recognised and appreciated. Kal
Tire—an international leader in mining tyre services and solutions at every
stage in the life cycle of a mining tyre—began offering retreading services in
the 1970’s as a way to help customers
keep tyres in production and reduce the total cost of tyre ownership. The
Maple Program was named as a nod to Kal Tire’s Canadian roots and the symbolism
of the maple leaf in that country. Kal Tire is looking at incorporating other environmentally friendly tyre management offerings into the Maple Program, such as its proprietary Ultra Repair technology that is able to repair large injuries on tyres that would otherwise be scrapped. 