The successful two-decade partnership between the government of Mali and Randgold (now TSX/NYSE-listed Barrick Gold Corporation) has made the gold mining industry one of the key drivers of the country’s economy says Barrick president and CE, Mark Bristow. Bristow says Barrick is committed to further investment in Mali. It
is currently developing a new underground mine at Gounkoto, replenishing
existing reserves through brownfields exploration, prospecting for another
world-class discovery along the Mali/Senegal shear zone and undertaking mapping
and research in the south of the country. He cautions, however, that Mali’s mining industry was facing many social and fiscal challenges. Underground mining breaks production record at Kibali Overcoming
these to ensure that the sector could sustain its contribution to the economy
required closer cooperation between government and industry in a spirit of
transparency and engagement. Bristow
notes that Barrick entered Mali through Randgold’s discovery and development of
Morila, which laid the foundation for its mining industry as well as marking
the first true partnership between a host country and investors in West Africa. Since
then, Barrick’s operations have paid approximately $2.7 billion in taxes,
royalties and dividends to the state. Its
mines currently contribute more than 40% of the country’s total gold
production. In
line with its commitment to creating value not only for its shareholders and the
treasury but to all the other stakeholders, it pioneered the concept of
building national capacity. Today all its mines in the country are managed by all-Malian executive teams. Tanzanian Government and Barrick bury the hatchet In
addition, some of the key leaders in Barrick’s Africa and Middle East region
are the products of the group’s human capital development programs in Mali. Barrick
also contributes to the economy through its support for local businesses, to
which it has paid approximately $190 million so far this year alone. Likewise,
it continues to invest in the community and all the villages around its mines
now have schools, primary healthcare clinics and access to potable water. At
Morila, which is nearing closure, it has invested significantly in an Agripole
which will provide a sustainable post-mining micro-economy for the villages
around the mine. At
Loulo, it has established an agricultural college which this year produced 40
farming graduates who have been deployed across 10 farms. Bristow
says in the past quarter Loulo-Gounkoto had again set production records and
was on track to meet its production guidance of 690,0001 ounces of gold for
2019. Successful
exploration was replacing depleted reserves, ensuring that its remaining life
exceeded 10 years. Loulo-Gounkoto
is one of the world’s largest gold mining operations and one of the largest
businesses in West Africa in terms of revenue, employment and taxes and
dividends paid to the state. Bristow says that progress had been made in the search for a global and amicable settlement of the tax and fiscal issues between Barrick and the Government of Mali and negotiations on the settlement’s implementation were nearing finalization. 