AIM-listed
Armadale Capital has announced a meaningful upgrade in the mineral resource estimate
for its high-quality Mahenge Liandu graphite project in Tanzania. Tanzania – The results of the recent infill drilling campaign have seen the mineral resource estimate increase to 59.5Mt @ 9.8% Total Graphitic Content (TGC). Notably, says Armadale, the upgrade was largely underpinned by two coherent high-grade 3.1Mt @ 15% TGC near surface zones including 1.2Mt at 17.3% TGC. Results of the recent drilling campaign have been
reviewed by ROM Resources who has signed off on a mineral resource estimate of
59.5Mt @ 9.8% total graphite content. High-grade near surface drilling results have been
incorporated into the resource model, with two high-grade coherent zones
totalling 3.1Mt @ 15% TGC zones including 1.2Mt @ 17.3% The implication of the resource model is that more
high-grade near surface graphite can potentially be mined at a lower extraction
cost in the early years to bolster potential cashflow and enhance the project’s
overall valuation The results expected to have a positive outcome on
the Definitive Feasibility Study currently being prepared Nick Johansen director of
Armadale said: “This latest
upgrade is extremely welcome news and there are a number of clear positives to
take from it. “Firstly, we now have
materially higher confidence in the mineral resource estimate with 11.5Mt @
10.5% in the measured category; and secondly it has demonstrated the potential
to mine higher volumes of graphite in the early years at a higher EBITDA margin
to enhance the project’s overall upside.” Read Armadale advances Mahenge Liandu graphite project [subhead] Highly lucrative project Armadale’s wholly-owned Mahenge Liandu graphite project is located in a highly prospective region and is one of the largest high-grade resources in Tanzania. Work to date has demonstrated the project’s potential as a commercially viable deposit, with significant tonnage, high-grade coarse flake and near surface mineralisation (implying a low strip ratio) contained within one contiguous ore body. Currently, Armadale is completing a DFS based on the results of a Scoping Study that was completed in March 2018. The study was based on a throughput of 400 000 tpa over a 32-year mine life and verified that Mahenge Liandu could produce a coarse flake, high-purity graphite product to underpin robust economics: low operating cost of US$408 per tonne, based on an average 12.5% TGC life of mine grade; pre-tax IRR of 122% and NPV of $349m; a low development capex of $35m; and after-tax payback period of 1.2 years.