Vibrating screen specialist Vibramech’s installation footprint across the West African region is extensive, stretching from Mali, Liberia and Sierra Leone to Mauritania, Guinea, Senegal, Ghana, Burkina Faso and the Cote d’Ivoire. Not only is Africa’s minerals industry one of the largest mineral industries in the world, West Africa alone has an abundant array of high-value minerals which at present include gold and iron ore. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 9, 2019Read the full digimag hereor subscribe to receive a print copy here Vibramech is well positioned to supply the demand for robust and high quality vibratory equipment in this region for these commodities, and others present as well. Read more about West Africa For many African countries, including West Africa, mineral exploration and production constitute significant parts of their economies and remain keys to economic growth. Reliable vibrating equipment contributes to such economic growth. Vibramech has been in operation for 41 years and is a leader in the manufacture and supply of high-quality vibrating equipment to the minerals processing industry, and it has a vast number of vibratory machines presently operating worldwide. It has a flexible and practical approach to screen design, which enables clients to optimise their vibrating equipment geometry to suit their specific requirements, resulting in tailor-made equipment. The company has also developed
a comprehensive range of multi-slope (or banana) screens, horizontal and
inclined screens, dewatering screens, grizzly feeders, pan feeders, tubular
feeders and grease tables. As an original equipment manufacturer (OEM), Vibramech purposefully
designs high quality, reliable and especially robust vibrating equipment for
the harsh African operating conditions above ground, which are highly
diversified from one country to the other. All equipment is
manufactured in-house by the company in its factory in Chamdor, 35 km west of
Johannesburg, South Africa. Almost every piece of equipment is tailor-made to suit a client’s specific requirements, from both a plant layout viewpoint and process considerations. A present staff complement of 200 control all activities from sales through to engineering and manufacturing. All equipment is designed and manufactured by Vibramech without the use of manufacturing subcontractors. This ensures complete control over quality and scheduling. Vibramech’s clients are also
supplied with spare parts and Vibramech’s experienced engineers regularly carry
out site visits in order to assess the installed equipment and operations, and
to provide advice on optimal operational conditions for its equipment. Please visit Vibramech’s website for an overview on how Vibramech could assist with your current and future mineral processing requirements. 