ASX-listed Tanzanian-focused flake graphite developer Volt Resources has provided an update on progress made in relation to funding strategies for the Stage 1 Development of its Bunyu Graphite Project in Tanzania. As previously advised the prospectus for Volt Graphite Tanzania Plc’s (VGT) proposed Stock Exchange of Mauritius (SEM) Note Issue and listing has been lodged with the regulator and is continuing to advance towards approval. Read more about mining in East Africa Positive feedback from SEM officials indicates that VGT’s prospectus is nearing its final approval with some minor delays incurred due to the high level of recent IPO activity on the exchange combined with Volt being the first resource company to seek a note issue to be listed on the stock exchange. The
SEM is an active and rapidly growing capital market in the African region with
over 200 listed companies and a total market capitalisation of ~US$12 billion,
with listed companies having raised over US$6.5 billion to fund growth. VGT’s
application is for a Note Listing on the Development & Enterprise Market of
the SEM and once approved will allow the Company to quickly commence its
funding raising process with SEM investors. In respect to the Tanzanian Note Issue and listing of Volt Resources on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange (DSE), Volt Resources can report that Volt Resources advisors met with senior officials of the Tanzanian Ministry of Minerals earlier this week to discuss key details and support for VGT’s proposed Note Issue. This
meeting was held in addition to other processes of engagement with senior
government officials. Volt Resources is encouraged by the ongoing level of engagement with key officials in Tanzania and remains confident of receiving final approval to issue the Note prospectus and list the issued Notes on the DSE. Volt
notes recent market commentary in relation to graphite market conditions and in
particular those affecting the Chinese graphite market. Volt
CEO Trevor Matthews provided the following commentary: “Volt’s
Board and management team note the recent commentary and market reports on
specific sections of the graphite market, and we would like to advise our
shareholders that we remain comfortable with Volt’s market position and the
planned graphite products. “Like all industrial minerals, graphite products are sold under bilateral offtake agreements between the producer and end-user and following recent dialogue with our offtake partners we are very confident that demand for Bunyu graphite products remains robust. “Based
on market research and our own due diligence, we have noted a softening in
pricing for fine flake graphite material impacted by significant new supply and
some slowing in demand from the battery sector, however coarse flake graphite
prices have remained relatively stable. “Overall,
we see the long-term outlook for graphite demand and pricing as very positive. “With over half of Volt’s planned graphite production being of coarse size,  Volt Resources' is well placed to benefit from high average sales prices per tonne of product.” 