ASX-listed Mali
Lithium this week provided an update on progress made during the development of
the Definitive Feasibility Study relating to key project infrastructure at its
Goulamina Lithium Project in Mali. Mali – Mali Lithium reports that it was made significant progress regarding water, power and road transport which significantly de-risk the project. The company has received a water licence from Malian
Authorities to pump from a nearby dam, de-risking the project water supply. Approval
has been given to Mali Lithium to draw water from the Sélingué Dam. Water will be pumped 29 km from the dam to one of the
Surface Water Run Off Facility (SWROF), intermittently. An additional benefit
of installing this pipeline is that it will enable offtakes to be put in place
to supply local villages with clean, treated water. Read: Investment boost for Goulamina Power and road Meanwhile, alternatives to diesel power generation on
site confirmed, allowing for operational cost savings in the final Definitive
Feasibility Study (DFS). A Pre-Feasibility Study (PFS), released in July 2018,
presented a 12 MW owner-operated station powered by diesel generators.
Discussions are underway with Energie Du Mali (EDM), which is the sole provider
of electricity in Mali, to investigate opportunities for the supply of power
from the hydroelectric power station located at Sélingué Dam. The energy situation in Mali is constantly developing and
it is likely that the current supply situation will change with the
introduction of solar power generation, with a number of proposals in place for
the Sikasso region. Regardless of these discussions, the mine will need its own
independent power generation capacity. Furthermore, Mali Lithium as identified opportunities to
reduce road transport costs using a combination of shorter route to Port and
backloading of product using empty trucks returning to port from Bamako. Several options
have been investigated for the transport and shipment of product from the
Goulamina mine. Abidjan and San Pedro in Côte d'Ivoire are the primary options. World-Class lithium deposit The Goulamina Lithium Project comprises a land holding of 100 km² covering
highly prospective hard rock lithium pegmatites in the Bougouni region of
southern Mali, approximately 150 km by road from Mali’s capital, Bamako. Reverse circulation (RC) and diamond drilling has identified a
number of sub-parallel spodumene-bearing pegmatites named Main, West, Sangar
and Danaya (formerly separated into Danaya and Yando), which host the current
mineral resource. cross-sections are shown below. Importantly, none of the pegmatites have been closed off at depth
or along strike. Auger drilling shows that the Danaya pegmatites extend over a
2.6 km strike length, whereas only 1.6km of strike has been drill-tested to
date. There is a high probability that additional drilling will result in an expansion of the existing mineral resource and further enhance the already attractive economics of the Goulamina project. 