Russia has committed to supply industrial robots, dump trucks and bulldozers to the African mining industry, as well as other digital technologies. The Minister of Mining and Mineral resources from Sierra Leone, Foday Rado Ioki, representatives of Russian companies ZYFRA, ALROSA and CHETRA, as well as Maximus Mining and General Maniema Mining Company from Democratic Republic of the Congo, took part in the panel discussion, "The African mining industry: new Russian technologies and high efficiency". Russia and Rwanda to build Centre of Nuclear Science and Technology "As in Russia, extractive industries form the basis of the economy in Africa. Thirty percent of the world's mineral reserves are located on this continent. According to government data, in South Africa alone, mining contributes eight out of every 100 rand to the overall economy, and accounts for one out of every 40 jobs,” says Igor Bogachev, Chairman of the subcommittee on digital economy of the Russian Union of Industrialists and entrepreneurs. “At the same time,
it is important to consider the harsh climates in which these enterprises are
located, the growing the health and safety requirements, and the challenges of
hiring highly qualified personnel. Without automation and robotics, it would be
impossible to solve these problems," added Bogachev. "At ZYFRA, we
offer regional players automated control system solutions for mining and
transport complexes, as well as robotic equipment," said Pavel Rastopshin,
Managing Director of ZYFRA, the first company in Russia to develop a robot dump
truck. “The use of
robotic technology is 20% higher compared to conventional machinery.  Thanks to such technology, the driver of a dump
trucks can transition into a control center operator, overseeing the use of
several vehicles at once. This fall, our robots were put to use in the SUEK
quarry in Khakassia and Morocco. Our next destination for this technology is
South Africa," added Rashtopshin. Panelists agreed
that traditional mining methods are becoming increasingly costly, while
productivity is declining due to high maintenance costs, low equipment
reliability, reactive troubleshooting, low equipment utilization and safety
incidents. According to General Maniema Mining Company Chief Executive George Oyema, improving workplace safety and productivity "serves the interests of both unions and workers, as well as owners and, ultimately, the state, by safely increasing the productivity of the industry." 