A new
data study by RCS
Global Group's Better Mining team has delivered the first ever
comprehensive picture of the state of artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) in
cobalt, copper, and the key conflict minerals of gold, tin, tantalum, and
tungsten. The research was made possible through the assessment of 12 months of data from RCS Global’s new “Better Mining” platform, which uses mobile-technology to permanently monitor ASM sites and deliver risk and impact information directly to auto and technology clients. USAID fund ensures DRC mines operate transparently The
publication of the data research coincides with the announcement that Volvo
Cars has become the first global brand to begin actively using Better Mining
data. For Volvo Cars, Better Mining will enable the company to gain greater insight over how cobalt used in lithium-ion batteries in its next generation electric vehicles and plug in hybrids is produced. In a second development stage, Volvo Cars is looking to extend Better Mining to its 3TG supply chains. DRC mining sector’s disclosures becoming more transparent The data
comes from five separate ASM sites in the DRC and Rwanda, all of which produce
either cobalt, copper or 3TG. Each site has been assessed by RCS Global; had
“corrective action plans” put in place; and are subsequently monitored
continually through the Better Mining platform. The
research finds that: ERG releases inaugural clean cobalt performance report Overall however, while there are encouraging signs, risk mitigation remains insufficient. Across all risk categories in the total sample, only 15% of recommended corrective actions have been implemented, with 32% in progress and 53% not started. The
research highlights the overarching impact that permanent, digital monitoring
and associated consistency in data flows can have in offering supply chain
stakeholders the tools to improve conditions in ASM. Perceived
complexity and opacity coupled with a lack of consistent data has stymied real,
systemic improvements in the sector to date. Big
global brands must stop relying on periodic audits and begin engaging and
supporting upstream efforts to improve mining conditions. Local
cooperatives and off-taker companies often lack the technical and financial
capacity to implement structural risk mitigation measures and urgently need the
support of consumer facing brands in their downstream supply chain. About
Better Mining Using
permanent mobile technology backed mine site monitoring, the platform delivers
continual and unprecedented levels of ASM risk and impact data at both
individual mine site and aggregated level. The subscription-based data service enables companies to strengthen and systematise their approach to identify, assess, and manage risks at the source of their raw material supply chains. Crucially, it is also used to assess and support positive impacts directed at ASM communities. “Responsible
sourcing risks are the most pertinent threat to the success of the EV
revolution,” says Dr. Nicholas Garrett, CEO of RCS Global Group. “Consumers are making an emotional purchasing decision. This means
they need to feel confident that brands are demonstrably taking the right steps
to address supply chain risks and generate positive impact where it is needed
the most. “Volvo Cars has underlined its innovation and ethical leadership
in the EV space by committing to include digital mine site monitoring tools
into its growing arsenal of practical approaches to support responsible
sourcing and change on the ground.” “Prior to Better Mining, consumer brands had no idea about the
development of risks at specific ASM sites and how to mitigate them,” says Ferdinand
Maubrey, Upstream MD at RCS Global Group. “We have turned this reality on its head by offering a solid data-driven window into the sector, along with a clear process to direct improvement efforts that generate positive impacts.” 