Twenty trainees attended a media training workshop hosted by Menar where they heard from a spectrum of speakers about different aspects of the mining sector. Menar Academy brought together the mining experts and senior journalists to train for mining journalism. ZAC to grow domestic and global anthracite market The trainees were from various organisations and media houses
including SABC news, Engineering News and Mining Weekly, eNCA, Mpumalanga
Tribune Newspaper Middelburg Observer and Lifa Communications. Journalism students from Tshwane University of Technology, University of Johannesburg and University of the Witwatersrand also were in attendance with many commenting how invaluable the seminar had been in giving them an insight into an industry that they had previously known very little about. Coal miners need to be committed in investing to create jobs The training was opened by Menar MD Vuslat Bayoglu, who shared his
experiences of engaging with media from the perspective of a mining company and
moderated by investor relations specialists Jacques De Bie. Speakers included, Mergence Corporate Solutions director of mining Peter Major, who presented on understanding the resources sector from an investor’s perspective; Minerals Council of South Africa senior economist Bongani Motsa who spoke on the state of mining in South Africa by taking a look at how various commodities had faired over the past twenty years; Senior independent researcher Dr Salimah Valiani on the historical context of mining in South Africa and the future of the sector and Webber Wentzel specialist mining lawyer Jonathan Veeran who gave a presentation on community engagement; the emerging key legal issues in the mining sector. Self-funding in coal sector is key as banks retreat The afternoon session saw presentations from award winning
journalist Sikonathi Mantshantsha, who outlined what the toolkit for good
journalism should comprise of; National Union of Mineworkers deputy president
Philip Vilikazi highlighted the experience of organising in a sector riddled
with job losses. The first day was concluded with a presentation by Menar chairperson
and veteran journalist Mpumelelo Mkhabela, who discussed the structure of the mining sector and emphasised the importance of journalists making use of state-owned entities and listed companies’ annual reports to generate factually correct, newsworthy stories that are in the public interest. Coal critical to enabling South Africa’s stability and growth Trainees concluded the 2019 edition of Menar’s Mining Journalism
Training by visiting Canyon Coal’s – a subsidiary of Menar – opencast mine
Khanye Colliery located in Bronkhorstspruit. The visit enabled the trainees to experience for themselves the
realities and complexities of operating a large-scale mine in South Africa. Khanye general manager Guy Thompson gave an overview of the mine,
which was followed by a tour of the mine’s main operating areas including two
of the three mining pits and processing plant areas.