Exclusive interview with Mr Matthew Magwede, Manager - Southern & Eastern Africa, Flowserve, South Africa, a silver sponsor at East & Central Africa Mining Forum. Mr Magwede will address the conference on “Water conservation and energy saving solutions around mineral processing”. Let’s start with some background on Flowserve, your products and the industries you serve?Our history began over 200 years ago, and today Flowserve employs more than 17,500 associates in 300-plus locations around the world, including over 180 quick response centres that provide aftermarket parts and services to customers. Flowserve offers more than 100 distinct pump models and a wide range of valve and mechanical seal products. Through our unmatched combination of products, engineering and aftermarket services, we help our customers achieve tangible business results: lower operating costs, optimized performance, prolonged equipment life, mitigated risks and higher productivity. Around the world, Flowserve is striving to create extraordinary flow control solutions to make the world better for everyone by offering basic to complex Pumps & Mechanical Seals solutions to Power, Mining, Oil & Gas, Petrochemical, Water and General Industry Market. What does your role entail?My role revolves around developing and implementing business strategies while providing leadership to a team of Sales Engineers and Applications Engineers strategically placed in Africa. As such, I am tasked with creating, developing and executing business strategies through translating ideas and corporate objectives into action plans & budgets as part of the overall planning process. I participate in high-level strategic & tactical planning sessions to share ideas on how to aggressively drive sales and profitability growth while offering customers ground-breaking technological solutions which help them increase their production and uptime of their critical equipment. It is all in the name of teaching-based selling approach. Any specific projects in the mining sector that Flowserve is involved in currently that you are particularly excited about at the moment?There are numerous projects that we are currently chasing and, of course, some we are already part of: customers’ cost reduction maintenance philosophy through Life Cycle Cost/ Maintenance Agreements. I am, however, not able to shed too much light on this subject but Flowserve is without a peer in the development and application of pump technology.  This is demonstrated by our commitment to offering Hydraulic Engineering, Mechanical Design, Materials Science, Intelligent Pumping and Manufacturing Technology. Tell us more about your business interests in the East & Central African regions. And in Africa at large?At Flowserve, experience is the cornerstone of our culture and we are well known worldwide as the key enabler to bringing industry-leading innovations. The region myself and team cover extends as far as Eritrea, Djibouti and all across Eastern and Southern Africa i.e. 26 countries. Our core business is providing fluid motion and control solutions and services to the Power, Water, Oil & Gas, General and Mining Market. Fluid motion means something more at Flowserve. It captures the spirit and actions of Flowserve associates worldwide, and conveys our ongoing efforts to move forward with advances in technology and ground-breaking industry applications. How important is sustainability, responsible mining and eco-friendly practices on the ground for the company? As a solution provider, we strongly believe that what was possibly the best solution and way of doing things 10 or 20 years ago has been replaced by more innovative solutions. Such solutions are aimed at improving sustainability, health and safety as well as conserving the environment. We also believe there is a lot of inspiration mining market could draw from other industries when it comes to reliability programs, energy saving and cost reduction techniques which not only increase uptime and production but help in conserving our water resources.  How excited are you about the mining opportunities in Rwanda and the region?We are extremely excited as an organisation to be part of this auspicious event and we believe the platform will allow for great networking as well as enabling us to promote our solutions designed specifically for the mining industry to realise positive saving through driving down operating expenditure while prioritising safety. What advice would you give a prospective investor in this sector in the region?Let us jointly think beyond production and proactively work on solutions that will sustain mining market and promote social cohesion. What is your vision for mining in East Africa?We dream of a region bursting at its seams and creating sustainable jobs in the region. There are lot of deposits in abundance such as nickel, vanadium, cassiterite, colombo-tantalite, gold, uranium, rare earth oxides, peat, cobalt, copper, platinum, hydropower, niobium, tantalum, gold, tin, tungsten, kaolin and limestone. Why the decision to partner with the East & Central Africa Mining Forum in October?We are delighted to promote water conservation and energy saving solutions to challenge the current status quo in the mining of saying “we have always done it this way”. We would like to help people to embrace new technologies to solve long-standing challenges and to make the world a better place for everyone.You are a speaker at the event, with a presentation entitled “Water conservation and energy saving solutions around mineral processing” -  will you have a specific message at the event? The message is to challenge the status quo within the mining industry and to help them adopt and adapt to new ways of doing things through embracing new ground breaking technological solutions. We believe Flowserve is well-positioned to help customers save water and energy. What are you most looking forward to in Kigali in October?Networking is top of our list but, most importantly, we believe that as the custodians of the company, it is high time this message reaches someone out there and we look forward to being part of this very important event.