A pilot program to introduce safer mining practices in gold mining in Nigeria communities has reduced blood lead levels by 32% according to a study. This
is the first study to report on a successful intervention to reduce lead
exposures among artisanal miners in communities were hundreds of children have
died from lead poisoning from the high levels of lead present in the gold ore. “This
is an extraordinary achievement demonstrating that it is possible to
significantly reduce lead exposures among highly exposed informal miners with
simple safer mining practices,” says Perry Gottesfeld, Executive Director of
Occupational Knowledge International (OK International) whose organization
partnered with Doctors Without Borders/ Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) in this
effort. “These
results exceeded expectations and are comparable to what large scale
lead-industries strive to achieve with millions of dollars in investment over
multiple years,” adds Gottesfeld. The organizations involved demonstrated that working cooperatively with miners and the community could result in significant health improvements with a relatively small investment that would not impact the long-term economics of these mining operations. In addition to training thousands of miners, they worked to put in place hand washing stations, change areas, and separate eating areas to reduce exposures. The
safer mining project took place in the Shikira community in Niger State. A
bore well was installed to provide wet spray misting to lower airborne lead
levels at the ore processing site serving this community. The
group reported earlier this year that that these control measures reduced
airborne lead exposures by 95%. Blood
lead levels are considered the best measure of exposure. The organization
tracked quarterly blood lead levels of a representative group of 58 miners over
19 months. The
study also found that women miners had higher lead levels and experienced lower
reductions than men (23% vs. 36%). The study “Declining blood lead levels among small-scale miners participating in a safer mining pilot programme in Nigeria” was published in the British Medical Journal Occupational and Environmental Medicine. Philip
Aruna, Head of Mission in Nigeria for Doctors Without Borders says: “We showed
that by working cooperatively with the entire community we can bring
significant reductions in lead exposures.” Gottesfeld
notes that, “Following our extensive outreach and training, the miners were
motivated to take measures to reduce hazardous lead exposures and invested
their own time and money to implement these protective measures.” Lead
causes severe neurological deficits and death among children in these
communities, but even at low exposure levels is responsible for 674,000 deaths
each year primarily due to cardiovascular disease. Investments
in safer mining to reduce lead exposures would have a significant return on
investment compared to the costs of treating severe lead poisoning in these
communities. There
are an estimated 40 million informal small-scale miners working in at least 70
countries around the world. In
addition to artisanal gold mining, informal lead mining accounts for an
increasing share of the global lead supply. Karla
Bil, one of the authors of the study says: “Our pilot project demonstrated that
safer mining practices are feasible, cost effective and can greatly improve
health outcomes in mining communities impacted by severe lead poisoning.” She
adds that “there is an immediate need for the Nigerian government to invest in
safer mining practices throughout impacted communities in Northern Nigeria to
apply these measures to improve health and reduce childhood lead poisoning.” In
addition to introducing wet methods, OK International focused on training
miners to reduce community exposures by implementing simple measures including
handwashing, showering, setting up separate eating areas, and changing out of
work clothing before going home at the end of the day. The overall cost for capital improvements for this community was approximately $5,000. 