ASX/JSE-listed Orion Minerals has received commitments from investors to raise approximately $5.5 million by way of placement of approximately 222 million fully paid ordinary shares. As part of the Placement,
Tembo Capital Mining Fund II LP and its affiliated entities, has confirmed its
continued support of Orion Minerals through subscribing for $2.5 million in the
Placement. Orion Minerals intends to utilise proceeds raised from the Placement for bankable feasibility study (BFS) optimisation studies and early works at its flagship giant VMS Orion Minerals: BEE restructure complete, with the remainder earmarked for exploration on the company’s tenements in the Northern Cape of South Africa and working capital. The Placement has been
made to sophisticated investors, pursuant to Section 708A of the Corporations
Act 2001. The issue of these Shares
falls within the 15% capacity for issues of equity securities without
shareholder approval afforded by ASX Listing Rule 7.1. Petra Capital acted as
sole bookrunner and sole lead manager to the Placement. The Placement is expected to be completed on or around 31 October 2019. Chairman of Orion Minerals, Denis Waddell, commented: “We are delighted with
the support for the capital raising from both existing and new investors,
including Tembo Capital. “Importantly, the funds
raised will be used to take us to the next significant milestones, being
completion of optimisation studies on the already positive Prieska Copper-Zinc
Project BFS study, commencement of Prieska Project early works, and progressing
the financing negotiations and contracts preparation for the Prieska Project. “Optimisation study work
is producing very positive early indications for potential reduction in project
capital and the possibility of bringing production forward. “We have also been
encouraged by interest from smaller existing shareholders who could not
participate in the Placement. “We have therefore decided to offer a Share Purchase Plan to provide all shareholders the opportunity to participate in a Share Purchase Plan at the same Share issue price as the Placement.” 