The World Gold Council has launched its ‘Gold and Climate Change: Current and future impacts’ report. The report aims to provide investors and industry stakeholders with greater clarity around both gold’s emission profile and the role that gold can play as a climate risk mitigation asset in long-term investment strategies. World Gold Council launches Responsible Gold Mining Principles Building on the Council’s initial work of 2018, the new report offers a more comprehensive overview of the current status of gold’s climate impacts and how the sector, and gold mining, might decarbonise, in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In addition, the report examines how gold’s role as an investment asset might be affected by climate-related physical and transition risks in comparison to other mainstream investments. Gold: Heightened risk meets easy money Key findings of the report include: Dr Ben Caldecott, Director of the Oxford Sustainable Finance Programme and an Associate Professor at the University of Oxford, comments: “Investors
all over the world, from large institutional investors to small millennial
retail savers, have become increasingly aware of their portfolios’
environmental footprints. “The
global challenge of transitioning to a negative carbon footprint poses a
massive challenge but also opportunity and will reshape the value of assets and
companies across sectors of the global economy. “This new report by the World Gold Council maps out the key questions the gold industry needs to address now in order to achieve net zero, but it also looks at the commodity playing a part of the solution. “I
welcome this report and look forward to seeing the gold industry’s progress
over the coming years.” Terry Heymann, CFO at the Council, comments: “We
recognise that climate change imposes very substantial risks to the global
economy. “This new research demonstrates that gold has an important role to play in supporting the transition to a lower-carbon economy, both through decarbonisation efforts and as a compelling investment as investors look for resilient assets in their portfolios, which are less likely to be negatively impacted by the physical and transition risks associated with climate change.” 