The Global Mining Guidelines Group has launched two new working groups on cyber-security and the electric mine to create safe and sustainable mines of the future. The cyber-security working group aims to help mining stakeholders as they look to design safe, secure, reliable and resilient cyber-security infrastructure that adheres to regulatory, trust, and privacy best practices. What lurks inside: cyber threats cannot be ignored The group will provide guidance for the industry to access and implement existing solutions, be responsive to the priorities of the industry, and look for projects that will benefit from Global Mining Guidelines Group (GMG)'s open, collaborative principles and processes. "As digitalization increases in our industry, so does the risk of cyber-security incidents,” says Andrew Scott, GMG Vice-Chair Working Groups and Principal Innovator at Symbiotic Innovations. “Industry-wide knowledge sharing and collaboration are important for mitigating these risks.” "The topic has come up in many existing GMG projects including those on autonomous systems, artificial intelligence and inter-operability, and it is clear that cyber-security is a high-priority concern among mining stakeholders,” Scott adds. The group will work closely with the Mining and Metals Information Sharing Analysis Centre (MM-ISAC) to collaborate on and identify existing projects and prevent duplication. The electric mine working group aims to accelerate the advancement and adoption of electric mining technologies in underground and surface contexts. It will cover all-electric technologies that are replacing those that typically use diesel. Key objectives include developing guidelines and sharing information on using and testing electric technologies and designing electric mines. "The shift toward the electric mine in surface and underground contexts is indicative of our industry’s growing commitment to reducing greenhouse gases and providing safer working environments,” says GMG MD Heather Ednie. "Previous GMG work on battery electric vehicles in underground mining brought together a community of companies leading the way in developing and adopting electric mining technologies. "As these technologies are increasingly used in surface mines, the need to expand the community has become clear,” she adds. This group will work in parallel with the International Commission on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and their Innovation for Cleaner Safer Vehicles (ICSV) initiative to ensure that the initiatives support each other. Once launched, these groups will form a steering committee to refine the scope and objectives and identify early projects. The Cyber-security Working Group will have its introductory virtual meeting on 11 November 2019. The kick-off workshop is to define what the industry needs from a cyber-security perspective; it will be held at the Kennedy Space Centre in Florida, U.S.A. on December 5, held in partnership with the MM-ISAC. 