Mining ministers and an Undersecretary for Mining from Tanzania, DRC and South Sudan will join the CEO of the Rwanda Mines, Petroleum & Gas Board (RMB) in a ministerial discussion panel on regional mineral trade and investment at the upcoming East & Central Africa Mining Forum (ECAMF) conference and exhibition in Kigali. The inaugural edition of the event is hosted by the RMB from 28-29 October and will gather regional and global mining and exploration companies, high-level government representatives and suppliers of technology and services to the industry. The conference programme features a ministerial panel, well-known mining pioneers who will share their experiences in the field and current success stories will be highlighted. Opening session highlights: Monday, 28 October 2019: Keynote address: “Mining in action: catalyst for Africa’s progression and development” H.E. Amb. Albert Mudenda Muchanga, Commissioner for Trade and Industry, African Union Commission, Ethiopia Ministerial panel: “Increasing regional mineral trade and investment” Moderator: Sheila Khama, Private Consultant, Botswana Industry support The event has already secured the support of leading mining and exploration companies in the region as well as top suppliers of technology and services to the industry. Aldango Gold Refinery is the diamond sponsor while Luna Smelter and BARRON are gold sponsors. Flowserve, Ivanhoe and Konrad Adenauer Stiftung are silver sponsors and CMD, GlobalTT, Minelab, Ngali Mining, Spectrometer, TechMet and Walkabout Resources Ltd have partnered as bronze sponsors. East & Central Africa Mining Forum will provide participants access to best practices to gain insights into reliable, cost effective technologies and fast-tracking financial support. Industry participation will include junior mining operators and exploration companies; stakeholders from the mining equipment, technology and service (METS) sector; transport and logistics firms to help cross-border cooperation; and financiers, who will help provide the right financial model and tools for projects of any scale. The event is organised by Spintelligent, a multi-award-winning Cape Town-based exhibition and conference producer across the continent in the infrastructure, energy and mining sectors. Other well-known events by Spintelligent include DRC Mining Week, Nigeria Mining Week, African Utility Week and POWERGEN Africa, Future Energy East Africa and Future Energy Nigeria. Spintelligent is part of the UK-based Clarion Events Group. East & Central Africa Mining Forum dates and location: Strategic conference and exhibition: 28-29 October 2019 Venue: Radisson Blu Hotel & Convention Centre, Kigali, Rwanda Website: http://www.miningforumafrica.com Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/MiningForumRwanda/ LinkedIN: East and Central Africa Mining Forum Twitter: https://twitter.com/MiningForumECA Contact: Senior Communications Manager:  Annemarie Roodbol Telephone:  +27 21 700 3558 Email:  annemarie.roodbol@spintelligent.com