Level 1 black-owned and black-managed process equipment specialist MIP Process Technologies truly understands the key to success. The company has grown significantly, even during the mining sector’s darkest economic periods. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 9, 2019Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here With absolute commitment to meeting its customers’ every need, the company has evolved and transitioned to stay relevant in a climate still driven by economic challenges, writes LAURA CORNISH The foundation blocks upon which MIP was built, and still
operates today, represents the ideal combination of characteristics required to
flourish in a globally unstable mining industry. While most of its peers comprise global conglomerates, the
company has carefully navigated its expansion and while financially capable of
competing on large-scale project work, has retained a small, flexible and
technically sound structure that makes its offering irresistible to the market. “We have not relied on our BEE credentials alone to drive
our business,” says CEO Philip Hoff. “We truly understand the importance of
giving our customers value for money, which in essence means a technically
sound understanding of their equipment needs and delivering upon those with the
right quality product at the right time.” Married with this service offering is the company’s hands-on
approach, flexible decision making structure and commitment to go above and
beyond to help a customer in their greatest hour of need. “It is however essential that we stay abreast of market
conditions at all times in order to adapt our business accordingly, and the
mining industry is still constantly evolving,” Hoff continues. “Optimised
processes are non-negotiable today, and require service providers such as
ourselves to deliver unparalleled service delivery, technically sounded experts
across the spectrum and unwavering focus to their every need.” Consequently, Hoff at this start of 2019 took the decision
to restructure the business to meet these industry requirements, establishing a
holding company – MIP Industries – with a number of wholly-owned subsidiary
businesses operating and focusing on different and more specific elements of
the core business. He retains his position as CEO of the group and of its
subsidiary companies. The companies, registered in January, started trading in
March and are all (except MIP Global) Level 1 BEE compliant – with 100% black ownership
and personnel as well. This is of significance considering 70% of all MIP
Industries’ business is generated from within South Africa. MIP Global The global MIP business has continued to build on the
widespread footprint established through the original MIP and is currently
executing work in Asia, Lesotho, Botswana and Zambia. “The majority of our work currently stems from Asia where we
are executing the delivery of two 35 m diameter thickeners, a 25 m diameter
thickener with associated flocculant plants,” Hoff says. To ensure the projects
are executed to the expected ‘MIP standard’ – Hoff has employed full time local
personnel who understand expectations and will further facilitate securing new
work in the future. MIP Process Equipment This subsidiary represents the former MIP Process Technologies business and is focused on tendering for and designing the company’s full range of process equipment – thickeners, clarifiers, flocculant plants and linear screens. It has also retained its African distribution agreement for a European-based company’s range of peristaltic pumps which Hoff says boasts more than 25 years of operating experience in Africa alone. “Our pump business has performed exceptionally well over the
last year and is outperforming competitor products on the market, whose life in
some instances lasts no longer than four to six weeks whereas ours have been in
operation for over a year with no operational difficulties,” Hoff affirms. One of the company’s most recent projects – the supply of an
additional 21 m thickener required to assist a chrome-focused client increase
overall plant throughput – delivered such significant increases in recoveries
that the client was able to pay the entire project upgrade off in just six
weeks. “Our thickener is producing much cleaner water which has enabled the
improved performance of the plant’s spirals.” This success has led to additional work for MIP Process Equipment
which now entails the refurbishment of the customer’s existing 20-year old
thickener. Projects of this nature has in fact become a significant portion of
MIP Process Equipment’s work at present – which represents significant
opportunities in South Africa’s mature mining industry. MIP Projects The MIP Projects business is focused on the delivery and
installation of all MIP Process equipment. With four crews in the field at
present, the business is at full capacity and through its focus on service delivery
is insuring the fastest possible erection and commissioning timeframes. “Our work at present extends into the gold, chrome, PGM and andalusite
sectors,” Hoff outlines. MIP Environmental MIP was in
2018 awarded the contract to build the largest sulphur dioxide cleaning plant
in the world, commissioned earlier this year. Although the project was
undertaken by the original MIP Process Technologies, work of this nature will
be managed by MIP Environmental moving forward. The plant
is designed to meet very stringent emissions output and treats 380 000 Am³/hour
– and demonstrates the company’s full capabilities in this field, which are
more extensive than what is currently
on offer by similar industry players. “We are the only company on the African
continent that can supply all the equipment for an entire gas cleaning plant,”
Hoff emphasises. Further to
this, the company offers its own proprietary hood design and process which
effectively captures gases during the tapping process in furnaces. On this back of a growing track record in this field and high-level technical expertise, MIP Environmental is busy – undertaking a v variety of smaller-scale projects in the gas cleaning business at present, which includes contracts to compile reports on potential customers’ gas cleaning needs. 