With the pending tax changes in South Africa, due to be enforced from 1 March 2020, the EU second passport scheme is an attractive and enticing proposal for South Africans. The turbulent future of South Africa is driving record numbers of South African in applying for second EU passports. AUTHOR: Marisa Jacobs, Director at Xpatweb The enticement of a second European passport through Investment has seen
Cyprus, Greece, Malta and Portugal experiencing vast an increase of applicants
from South Africans. Since 2018, there has been an increase of 364% in interest from South Africans for
a second passport. What many South Africans call “Plan B” continues to
gain popularity. With a European passport, the prospect of living in any country forming part
of the European Union is highly attractive. South Africans are looking to their future and that of their children, the
idea of having the opportunity to study and work in any country across the EU
remains appetising. Ease of travel is also a key reason, with the South African passport
allowing access to 102
countries however excluding the world biggest economies such as the US, UK,
Europe Schengen area and Canada. A Cyprus passport allows visa free travel to 169 countries, Greece 183 countries, Malta 182 countries and
Portugal allows visa free travel to 184
countries. Thus, travel, education, employment, business opportunities and safeguarding a better future for their family are key reasons for record numbers of South Africans in the past 12 months applying for second EU passports. Mauritius now more than just a tax haven for South Africans Depending on the EU Scheme, these EU passports can be ascertained through
investments starting from €250,000 and take between 6 months – 7 years to
attain the EU passport (no residency period in the country required). Therefore, a South African does not have to permanently live in the country
to attain the EU Passport. Vast numbers of South Africans are looking to the future and are open to making the investment for both themselves and their children’s future. 