Exclusive interview with Tarik Benamer, Export Area Manager at HİDROMEK, an exhibitor at the upcoming Nigeria Mining Week in Abuja in October. Let’s start with some background on HİDROMEK and your current business interests in Africa, and in Nigeria in particular.HİDROMEK, one of the leading companies in the global construction machinery sector, was founded in Ankara in 1978. Today, HİDROMEK has around 2000 employees. Backhoe loaders, hydraulic excavators, wheel loaders, motor graders and soil compactors are manufactured in six production facilities including four factories in Ankara, one factory in İzmir and one factory in Thailand. The new production facility located in an area of 1.4 million m² in Ankara has been continuing. HİDROMEK, which combines its over 40 years of production experience with design and R & D power, has 45 thousand machines working in more than 100 countries. HİDROMEK, giving great importance to after sales services in each market, domestic or overseas, offers spare parts, maintenance and repairs to its customers through more than 100 overseas service points. Also, HİDROMEK carries out the management of international authorized dealers and provides sales and after sales services through international sales and after sales service centers such as HİDROMEK WEST in Barcelona, Spain, HİDROMEK RUSSIAN in Krasnodar, Russia and HİDROMEK JAPAN in Sagamihara, Japan. Creating the difference in design of construction machinery, HİDROMEK has crowned its accomplishment with many awards. As of today, HİDROMEK is the winner of a total of 17 design awards, which are internationally prestigious. Besides, as per figures declared by IMDER (The Construction Equipment Distributors and Manufacturers Association of Turkey), HİDROMEK has been the market leader in Turkey for the past 10 years for backhoe loader sales, for the past seven years for excavator sales and for the first time for motor grader sales. HİDROMEK has more than 4000 machines operating in different African countries. Thanks to HİDROMEK’s dealership network, necessary needs and support are provided for all HIDROMEK clients in Algeria, Tunisia, South Africa, Ghana, Sudan and other African countries. Is HIDROMEK involved in any specific projects in Nigeria and the region that you are particularly excited about at the moment?This will be HİDROMEK’s first experience in the Nigerian market. Since our vision is to be a global brand, we would like to have opportunity to present HİDROMEK brand to the Nigerian market as well as other African countries. We have updated technology along with high quality machines, which we believe can bring added value to the Nigerian mining sector. How excited are you about the opportunities in Nigeria’s mining sector?The Nigerian mining sector is big in terms of natural resources whether represented Gold, Talc, Gypsum, Iron Ore, or oil exploration activities, which we believe there is high demand for earth moving machineries. Therefore, we are looking for companies who are interested in HİDROMEK machines to join our family in Nigeria. What will be Hidromek’s message at Nigeria Mining Week in October?HİDROMEK products, which are produced by considering R & D, design, technology and innovation at every stage of production, provide power, durability and fuel efficiency. We would like to find an ambitious agent who can represent HİDROMEK in the Nigerian market. What are you most looking forward to in Abuja in October?Nigeria is one of largest African countries in terms of population and has the intention to grow and achieve development for industrial and services sectors. The total worth of projects that are being planned to be built in Nigeria is about 12 billion dollar.  The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in Nigeria was worth 397.30 billion US dollars in 2018 and the expectation is high for 2019 in terms of increasing GDP. So as mentioned above, we are mostly looking forward to find our partner to start our business in Nigeria, especially in mining sector. Anything you would like to add?HİDROMEK family would like to thank the Nigerian government, especially the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, represented by Mining Minister Olamilekan Adegbite, for their support and effort on development of mining sector by organizing such events in Nigeria.