Comminution and separation solutions expert IMS Engineering is committed to building a stronger and more sustainable mining sector in South Africa The company has chosen to partner with locally empowered businesses which will benefit from the company’s technology sets and skills transfer – and in so doing give rise to a new stream of mining-proficient service providers, MD PAUL BRACHER tells LAURA CORNISH. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 9, 2019Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here “Partnering with local businesses that have the potential to
contribute significantly to the South African mining sector is the approach IMS
Engineering is taking to help deliver a more sustainable industry moving
forward,” Bracher states. “Through carefully selected partnerships we are looking to
transfer not only our technology but our skills sets across the areas we
specialise in,” he continues. The result of this strategic approach will undoubtedly see IMS Engineering emerge as partner which mines can rely on to drive their own sustainability and empowerment objectives. In further support of this drive, IMS has also improved its BEE accreditation in line with the new Mining Charter’s objectives through the establishment a new business entity – IMS Engineering South Africa – which is 51% owned by a black female-owned business and provides the company with a Level 2 BEE rating. This combination of approaches to doing business in South
Africa remains a rarity in the mining sector and should be considered a
statement that IMS Engineering is committed to working ethically and
responsibly in the country. “We have already secured the first, of what we hope will be many similar
partnerships, with Asenza Mining and Engineering Services, a subsidiary of
Asani Group Holdings, a black owned industrial holdings company with a diversified
portfolio of businesses in engineering, petrochemical services, mining services
and power generation. Asenza MES is a specialist mining and engineering
services company” Bracher reveals. Asenza MES offers a variety of complementary services that are well suited to the IMS Engineering suite of product solutions. Bracher confirms that the companies are already working together and developing a pipeline of mining projects to be jointly executed by the parties. “This is a strong company which is bringing their own skills set to the table which primarily includes service support. They also have a strong network within the mining sector which can benefit from our technically advanced comminution and separation solutions. Together we offer the mining industry a superior service offering.” As the mining industry also looks to embrace a technologically advanced future where costs are minimised and productivity optimised, IMS Engineering’s partners will deliver benefits in this areas by making use of the company’s remote monitoring system I-MOST. “This intelligent and remote monitoring system guarantees increased plant availability, reduced environmental impacts, reduced operating costs and reduced manpower resources,” Bracher concludes. 