 Interview with Peter Leon, Partner and Africa Co-Chair and Bertrand Montembault, Partner: Africa Group, Herbert Smith Freehills. At the East & Central Africa Mining Forum in Kigali from 28-29 October, Herbert Smith Freehills is a bronze sponsor and Peter Leon and Bertrand Montembault are part of a panel discussion titled 'Shedding light on the challenges of state and private investor partnership'. Let’s start with some background on Herbert Smith Freehills – there is a proud history there.Herbert Smith Freehills (HSF) is a leading global law firm with over 4,000 people, including 450 partners, in 27 offices across Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East and the US. We are leaders in a number of industry sectors, including energy and natural resources. In Africa, we have built an impressive track record over the past three decades advising mining companies, lenders and other stakeholders on all aspects of law in the sector, across the whole of the African continent. Our
Africa practice group includes a multi-disciplinary team of mining law experts
drawn from across our international network, with one of the largest teams of
common and civil law lawyers dedicated almost exclusively to Africa work. Our
team advises on all key issues affecting Africa’s mining industry and across
every stage of the mining project life cycle: from exploration and approvals to
social licence issues, M&A, financing, mine development and construction,
process plants, infrastructure, shipping, marketing, productivity improvements
and mine care and maintenance or closure. We are experts in joint venture and
corporate governance. We guide our clients through equity and debt capital
markets and restructuring steps. We are also there to help our clients avoid
and resolve disputes. What projects in the
mining industry in East Africa are you currently involved in?
HSF has
been ranked Band 1 for eight consecutive year by Chambers Global, Africa-wide:
Mining and Minerals. We have advised on some of the largest and often
first-of-a-kind mining projects across Africa. Some of our most recent examples
of matters that we have advised clients in jurisdictions across Central and East
Africa include: What are some of the current trends / developments that you are seeing in the mining sector both globally and more specifically in East Africa? The mining industry continues to face challenges from multiple quarters. From more transparency as to the safety of the operations and the impact of those operations on various stakeholders, to continuing pressures from governments to review the value generated by the mining sector. Understanding and engaging with various stakeholders continue to be a key factor in mining companies maintaining the license to operate and in navigating the various challenges. Perhaps
the trend that we are seeing more of both globally and in relation to East
Africa is resource nationalism. During the last two years, various African and
Latin American countries have introduced a number of measures aimed at exerting
greater control over the extractive sector. In its 2019 Report on the Resource
Nationalism Index, the global risk consultancy Verisk Maplecroft identified the
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Tanzania (along with Venezuela in the
LATAM region), in particular, as the jurisdictions with the highest resource
nationalism risk. Measures
which are typically associated with resource nationalism include changes to
fiscal policies, such as the introduction of higher royalties and windfall
profit taxes. The most recent example of this concerns the changes introduced
by the Zambian Government in December 2018 in an attempt to maximise both
revenues and foreign investment. In some instances, the measures relied on by
governments are more overt, such as the recent attempt by the Government of
Zambia to liquidate Konkola Copper Mine plc in order to appropriate Vedanta
Resources Holdings Limited's interests in the company. Resource
nationalism policies are, however, not limited to fiscal measures and include
various other steps such as local content thresholds, free carried interest
requirements and beneficiation obligations. The
drivers behind resource nationalism are complex and country-specific, however,
there are often a number of common political and economic factors. One key
underlying factor, particularly for countries with economies which are highly
dependent on the export of raw minerals, is commodity price cycles. The changes
to the DRC’s mining code, by way of example, followed a surge in the price of
copper and cobalt, two of the country's biggest exports, after a significant
price slump in 2016. Resource
nationalism may also be motivated by political factors, often in response to
populist demands or electoral cycles. Key examples include Tanzania and Zambia
where policy changes were in response to specific events. While
the industry continues to monitor public sentiment towards mining operations
and the political situation more generally, the Verisk Maplecroft's 2019 report
notes that over 30 countries around the world have seen a significant increase
in resource nationalism in 2018, including 21 major producers of oil, gas and
minerals. As the underlying reasons which led to the rise of resource
nationalism are complex and multi-faceted it is unlikely to be resolved soon.
Resource nationalism is both cyclical and contagious and it is therefore likely
that the trend will continue. You are part of a panel discussion during the conference on “The challenges of state and private investor partnership”, what will be your message at the event? The African continent is endowed with abundant natural resources, including about thirty per cent of the world's mineral reserves.  Despite the mineral wealth most resource-rich African countries have been categorized as low income countries.  In fact, analysts have observed a negative impact of resource abundance—particularly mineral resources—on long-term economic growth. There
are various underlying causes which drive this phenomenon which are primarily associated
to market related factors (especially commodity price fluctuations). These, in
turn, are aggravated by political factors that relate to institutional quality
and rent-seeking. Despite
the economic causes underlying the paradox, the impression that African states
are not reaping the benefits of their mineral wealth also gives rise to a
growing discontentment with the disparity between the profits which foreign
investors receive through the exploitation of the mineral resources and the
poverty in which the citizens live. This, axiomatically, has been the source of
various disputes. In
an attempt to address this, a number of African governments have embarked on
sweeping mineral law and fiscal reform. 
The changes are often without the support of the mining sector, which
can lead to further animosity between the government and foreign investors.
Such reforms can likewise constitute a breach of the protection afforded to
mineral right holders under the mineral development agreements to which they
and the host governments are party. While
the ability to regulate the economic consequences occasioned by the resource
curse lies squarely with the domain of the African governments, it should be
possible to better regulate the long term relationship between the host
governments and foreign investors. This can be achieved by negotiating
enduring, sustainable and mutually beneficial extractive contracts.  African governments, in turn, should consider
the Natural Resource Charter (published in 2009, now in its second edition)
which is an example of a valuable guide and policy toolkit which could assist
governments in identifying the appropriate measures. MORE ABOUT PETER LEON AND BERTRAND MONTEMBAULT: Peter Leon Peter is one of the world's pre-eminent mining lawyers according to the International Who's Who of Mining Lawyers and other peer reviewed global legal directories.  His areas of expertise include crisis management, mineral and petroleum regulation in developing countries (including international best practice), resource nationalism, black economic empowerment and indigenisation law, international investment law and investment protection. Peter
regularly advises clients on major mine development agreements and resources
regulatory issues across Anglophone Africa.  
He also has significant experience in contentious matters involving
States in sub-Saharan Africa.  He is particularly
skilled in crisis management and has provided expert advice on an urgent basis
to clients to assist them in managing and mitigating significant country risks. Peter
is well versed in the sub-Saharan African geopolitical climate and provides
strategic advice not only on issues related to the mineral regulatory framework
but also how to navigate the framework within the prevailing economic and
political conditions in key African mining jurisdictions. Bertrand Montembault
Bertrand
has 27 years of experience helping clients on various aspects of their
operations and projects in Francophone Africa, mainly in the oil and gas, power
and natural resources sectors. He lived and worked in Gabon for two years prior
to joining the firm and has an excellent knowledge of Francophone Africa's
local and regional legal systems, including OHADA, and a strong network of
local contacts. Bertrand
is ranked in band 1 for Africa-wide Projects and Energy by Chambers Global
2019, which says that sources describe Bertrand as "an excellent lawyer
and great on the theory. He's the guy to ask when it gets complex."
Bertrand is also ranked for Gabon General Business Law (Expertise Based
Abroad). Bertrand
is a member of the Association of International Petroleum Negotiators and AFDEN
(French Association for Energy Law), and an honorary associate of the Centre
for Energy, Petroleum and Mineral Law and Policy at Dundee University. He also
lectures regularly at the French School of Mines and at various universities
and schools. About Herbert Smith
Freehills
Operating
from 27 offices across Asia Pacific, EMEA and North America, Herbert Smith
Freehills is at the heart of the new global business landscape providing
premium quality, full-service legal advice. The firm provides many of the
world’s most important organisations with access to market-leading dispute
resolution, projects and transactional legal advice, combined with expertise in
a number of global industry sectors, including Banks, Consumer products,
Energy, Financial buyers, Infrastructure & Transport, Mining,
Pharmaceuticals & Healthcare, Real estate, TMT and Manufacturing &
Industrials.