Predictive Discovery’s Cote d’Ivoire subsidiary, Ivoirian Resources, has been granted the Bocanda North permit. Cote D’Ivoire – The Bocanda North permit area, which was approved by Cote d’Ivoire’s Ministerial Council in September, was selected using Predictive Discovery’s in-house and trademarked targeting system, known as Predictore. The permit straddles a major geological contact separating greenstone from granite and representing the western edge of the largest greenstone belt in Cote d’Ivoire which is also the southern extension of Burkina Faso’s Hounde belt. The Hounde Belt contains several large gold deposits in Burkina Faso including Semafo’s Mana mine and Endeavour Mining’s Hound mine. The 400 km2 Bocanda North permit also lies on the same structural position as the Bobosso gold project in Cote d’Ivoire. Bobosso covers a very large gold mineralised system which was explored previously by Predictive; the company retains a trailing interest in Bobosso which will result in cash payments to Predictive if one or more gold mines are discovered and developed there. “Predictive has been operating in Cote
D’Ivoire since 2013 and regards it as a highly attractive destination for
mining investment, because of its high prospectivity and for its deserved
reputation as an investor friendly jurisdiction. “Apart from our own exploration successes in Cote d’Ivoire in joint venture with Resolute Mining ( Nyangboue and Ouarigue South discoveries), other ASX-listed explorers, such as Exore Resources and Tietto Minerals are reporting very exciting exploration results from the country, supporting its potential for large greenfields gold discoveries. The recent commencement of mine development work on the major Yaoure gold deposit by Perseus Mining also confirms the investment attractiveness of Cote d’Ivoire,” says Predictive Discovery MD Paul Roberts. READ MORE: Predictive Discovery's JV with Resolute Mining Predictive Discovery team members will visit the Bocanda North site to scope out the initial work program in October. Field work initially consisting of stream sediment sampling and geological mapping will commence in November or December. 