Peter Leon, Partner and Africa Co-Chair, Herbert Smith Freehills addressed delegates at the East and Central Africa Mining Forum (ECAMF) in Kigali this morning (29/10/2019) about the governance of Africa’s mineral resources. Here are some key
points from his presentation: The African continent is endowed
with abundant natural resources, including about thirty per cent of the world's
mineral reserves. Historically,
however, most resource-rich African countries have been categorized as low-income
countries.  In fact, analysts have observed a negative impact of resource
abundance—particularly mineral resources—on long-term economic growth. To establish the key drivers of the
long-term negative impact, analysts have studied the growth in per capita
income in forty-seven African countries from 1990 to 2014 and compared it with
each country’s primary resource (agriculture, fisheries, forestry and hunting)
as well as oil and mineral resource production during the same period. The results of their analysis
indicates that the phenomenon, known as the resource curse, is primarily owing
to market related factors (especially commodity price fluctuations)
which, in turn, are aggravated by political factors that relate to
institutional quality and rent-seeking. The most significant and insidious
effect of resource abundance is often the destabilising effects suffered by
other economic sectors when a country becomes overly dependent on exports of a
single natural resource. Studies indicate that there tends to
be a direct correlation between commodity prices and GDP. The fluctuations in commodity prices
in turn affect the GDP of the country if the country is largely dependent on
the commodity in question. African countries where this trend was recently
observed include the Democratic Republic of Congo, Gabon, Sudan and Nigeria. The effect of fluctuating commodity
prices is exacerbated in countries where little economic diversification has
taken place, and the economy thus remains overly dependent on the income
derived from exports of specific raw commodities. A leading example is Zambia, where
economic development has been hamstrung by over-reliance on copper exports,
accounting for over 60 per cent of export earnings in 2018, and insufficient
reinvestments of the income from the depletion of its natural capital. Despite the economic causes
underlying the paradox, the impression that African states are not reaping the
benefits of their mineral wealth also gives rise to a growing discontentment
with the disparity between the profits which foreign investors receive through
the exploitation of the mineral resources and the poverty in which the citizens
live. This has given rise to various disputes.  Recent examples include those between Acacia Mining plc and Tanzania, First Quantum Mining and Zambia, Vedanta Resources and Zambia as well as the Gerald Group and Sierra Leone. To address this, several African
governments have embarked on sweeping mineral law and fiscal reform. As part
of the process, the governments often: introduce or increase compulsory
minimum quotas for: These changes to a country's mineral
law regime are often without the support of the mining sector, which can lead
to further animosity between the government and foreign investors. Such reforms can likewise constitute a breach of the protection afforded to mineral right holders under the mineral development agreements to which they and the host governments are party. To assert their rights, investors frequently invoke the stabilisation provisions provided for in such agreements and refer these disputes to international arbitration. Ironically, the disputes between
foreign investors and host governments tend to be rooted in the historic
imbalances which arise from the mineral development agreements themselves. While the ability to regulate the
economic consequences occasioned by the resource curse lies squarely with the
domain of the African governments, it should be possible to better regulate the
long-term relationship between the host governments and foreign
investors. In this regard, the OECD's recently
approved Guiding Principles for Durable Extractive Contracts set out
eight principles that host governments and investors can use as a common
reference for future negotiations of enduring, sustainable and mutually
beneficial extractive contracts. The purpose of the principles is to
assist host governments and investors using them to: Under the Guiding Principles
extractives contracts are likely to be durable if they: While there is no one ideal fiscal
regime, host governments ought to identify the optimal mix of fiscal
instruments and terms to meet their objectives.  In my experience, a
predictable fiscal regime that includes responsive terms defined in legislation
and or contracts to adjust the allocation of overall financial benefits between
host governments and investors contributes to the long-term sustainability of
extractive contracts and reduces the incentives for either party to seek
renegotiation of terms. The costs attributable to compliance
with changes in law and regulations, and wholly, necessarily and exclusively
related to project specific operations, in turn, should be treated as any other
project costs for purposes of tax deductibility, and cost recovery in
production sharing contracts. If such changes in law and or
applicable regulations result in the investor’s inability to perform its
material obligations under the contract or if they lead to a material adverse
change that undermines the economic viability of the project, durable
extractive contracts require the parties to engage in good faith discussions
which might eventually lead the parties to agree to renegotiate the terms of
the contract. Ultimately, transparency, predictability and a process of continued dialogue between the host governments and investors are key to the success of a project and an equitable sharing of benefits that result from the exploitation of the minerals. 