Mining equipment and services provider Sandvik Mining and Rock Technology has responded to its customers’ need for a cost-effective underground drill – one that does not compromise on safety, reliability or performance – but still offers the same benefits and results as the premium model. This resulted in the launch of the mid-tier DD320s drill in June this year – to fill the gap between the company’s classic DD320 and premium DD321 drill, writes CHANTELLE KOTZE. According to Sandvik Mining and Rock Technology Southern Africa’s business line manager for underground drills Saltiel Pule, the DD320s is designed to operate in various drilling applications, including face drilling, cross-cut drilling and bolt hole drilling making it an ideal product fit for junior mining companies as well as contract mining companies. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 9, 2019Read the full digimag here or subscribe to receive a print copy here The DD320s has been designed using a number of Sandvik’s proven components, systems and controls. These proven technologies are not only uncompromising in ensuring a safer, more productive workplace for both operators and maintenance teams but with more than 95% spared parts commonality and identical service points and service instructions with the DD321, DT621 and DD320-26X, the DD320s shares common service principles and spare parts across the entire fleet. The standardised technology used
within the heart of the DD320s includes some of Sandvik’s well-known components
such as THC560 hydraulic drilling controls, B26XLF boom and HLX5 rock drill
that has been proven to ensure long running hours with minimum downtime. Moreover, the drill’s carrier components
and its layout, such as the Mercedes Benz OM904LA 110 kW Tier 3 diesel engine,
CTN9 air compressor and hydrostatic transmission system are very similar to the
Sandvik DD321 and DT621 technologies. “The DD320s is compatible with a Sandvik DS311
bolter, a Sandvik LH410 loader and a Sandvik TH430 truck as a fleet supplement.
Together these provide a full mining package,” Pule explains. The DD320s features Sandvik’s basic digitalisation
and instrumentation features and includes Sandvik’s patented OptiMine modular
information management solutions, a fleet data management system as well as a proximity
detection system interface, which is a legal obligation in South Africa. Rigorous testing The drill prototype was trial tested
in cooperation with Sargin Construction and Machinery Inc., operating as a mine
contractor at the Esan Balya mine, located in the western part of Turkey, from
November 2018 to March 2019 on both mining and tunnelling applications. The outcome of the tests at the mine
revealed that the drilling performance and reliability of the Sandvik DD320s was
well above the given benchmark compared to other OEM machines of similar age
and size. In terms of drilling performance,
the DD320s achieved 93.3 m/percussion hour, compared with 69.3 m/percussion
hour of the other OEM drill, while the DD320s achieved mechanical availability
of 93.83% compared with 70.18% of the other OEM drill. Targeting southern Europe, Middle East and Africa There are already five DD320s in
commercial use in Turkey and southern Europe, with growing interest from the
African market. “To ensure the rock drill meets the requirement of the African mining sector, the drill will now be rigorously tested in South Africa,” says Pule. He adds that its speed brake interlock system, installed to prevent excessive speed during driving – another of the safety enhancing features of the DD320s – will be independently tested at the Gerotek testing facility in Pretoria. The DD320s will soon be available on
a rental basis in Southern Africa as a means to stimulate initial market
interest in the product. The DD320s has been designed using a number of Sandvik’s proven components, systems and controls. 