NYSE/TSX Golden Star plans to close its Toronto office by April 30, 2020 and that its executive team will be in London, England. André
van Niekerk, Executive Vice President and CFO, has decided not to accept the
offer to move to London and expects to leave the company by April 30,
2020. In
addition to the above changes, two other appointments have been made to the
executive team. Nathalie
Lion Haddad has recently joined as Executive Vice President, Head of
People. Nathalie
was previously with Sherritt International Corporation where she was Vice
President, Human Resources. Secondly,
effective November 1, 2019, Peter Spora will be joining as Executive Vice
President, Growth & Exploration. Peter
is currently in the role of Head of Discovery at La Mancha and was previously
Head of Discovery at Acacia Mining plc. Andrew
Wray, CEO, comments: "The
relocation of the corporate office to London was a decision made only after
careful consideration. “Given
the location and time zone of our operations, as well as our plans to grow the company,
the board of directors and I concluded that having the executive team all
together in London was the best option for the business. “This is a significant step for Golden Star, and I would like to express my appreciation to our employees who have demonstrated professionalism in assisting with what needs to be done in order to ensure a smooth transition. It has been a pleasure to work with André and, although only for a relatively short period of time, André has provided tremendous support for me during the initial period following my appointment as CEO and I wish him all the best for the future. Flagship gold project gains momentum “The company will immediately initiate a formal search for a Chief Financial Officer. André will remain in his current role to take the company through its 2019 financial reporting obligations and to ensure an orderly transition of his responsibilities. “I
am also delighted to welcome Nathalie and Peter to the senior team, and I am
confident they will make a significant contribution to the future success of
the business." Van
Niekerk comments: "I
have thoroughly enjoyed my fourteen years with Golden Star and wish the company
all the best going forward. While this was a difficult decision to make, I have determined that now is the appropriate time to embark on new opportunities after I provide for a smooth transition for my successor." 