MineHub, the technology platform digitalising the mining and metals supply chains, has announced Kimura Capital is joining its consortium of participants. Arnoud Star Busmann, CEO of MineHub says: “Having Kimura on board as a consortium member is very strategic for MineHub. "Offering optionality in financing sources is core to our strategy and Kimura is a clear leader in this sector, both in size and diversity, as well as their commitment to innovation, technology and sustainability. “Working with Kimura and their peers, in conjunction with commercial banks and other financial institutions, MineHub will improve the working capital options and costs for miners, traders and other users. Collaborative mining and metals technology platform launched “Our
solutions will serve both large corporates and SMEs within the market, whilst
contributing to responsible supply chains by linking risk pricing to ESG
profiles of minerals.” Kristofer Tremaine, CEO and Founder of Kimura Capital says: “There
is no doubt whatsoever that digitisation is the future for the market. Kimura
has developed its business by selecting best in class partners in order to
strengthen its overall offering. “We
are delighted to begin a partnership with MineHub whom have outstanding
potential and represent Kimura’s first cooperation in the digitisation of
commodity trade flows. MineHub’s value set and ambitions run very closely to
Kimura’s, making the future of our strategic partnership, along with the other
strong companies involved, one of great success.” Kimura
is a London based asset management company that specialises in commodity trade
finance with expertise in financing complex logistical operations. As
a member of the Alternative Investment Management Association, Kimura’s
experience in finance will provide another important source of financial
liquidity within the mining and metals ecosystem. The
partnership with MineHub will be instrumental in driving the innovation within
the industry. With
financial institutions adapting to a changing regulatory environment, the
provision of alternative finance plays an increasingly important role in
facilitating the availability of credit, not just for trade finance, but also
project and institutional finance. Improving
access to capital is therefore a core part of the MineHub value proposition and
a key area of focus is on enabling an integrated mix of institutional and
alternative finance actors to provide new financing structures. Digitalisation,
transparency and automation will help reduce operational and fraud risks,
thereby lowering the barriers to entry for alternative financing sources. Increased operational efficiencies and automation of ESG compliance will enable alternative financing houses to serve more clients without increasing operations and overheads. 